 'display_name': 'GSI Helmholtz Centre for Heavy Ion Research'
(1) Background: Adolescents who are under the care of child and youth institutions are vulnerable due to factors that can include disruption to family structure or education and adverse experiences. They often experience poor or unstable support systems, leaving them at risk of delinquency. In this context, sports engagement may provide a stable structure and have positive effects in this population. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to explore the perceptions, knowledge, beliefs, and behaviors regarding social and emotional skills among at-risk adolescents, with a specific focus on their engagement in sports. (2) Methods: Ninety-six adolescents aged 12 to 17 years (66 female, 30 male), residing in child and youth care institutions across Italy, Portugal, the UK, and Turkey, participated in this study. The participants were divided into 14 focus groups, each with six to eight participants of similar ages. (3) Results: Thematic analysis revealed four main themes: Emotional causes of behavioral problems; Emotional skills to regain control; Social support makes sports worthwhile; Sport as a socio-emotional resource. (4) Conclusions: The study findings highlight that although sports create many challenging emotional situations for these adolescents, they also provides resources that may help them cope with their emotions within and beyond sports.
(1) Background: In Cambodia, Aedes albopictus is an important vector of the dengue virus. Vector control using insecticides is a major strategy implemented in managing mosquito-borne diseases. Resistance, however, threatens to undermine the use of insecticides. In this study, we present the levels of insecticide resistance of Ae. albopictus in Cambodia and the mechanisms involved. (2) Methods: Two Ae. albopictus populations were collected from the capital, Phnom Penh city, and from rural Pailin province. Adults were tested with diagnostic doses of malathion (0.8%), deltamethrin (0.03%), permethrin (0.25%), and DDT (4%) using WHO tube assays. Synergist assays using piperonyl butoxide (PBO) were implemented before the pyrethroid assays to detect the potential involvement of metabolic resistance mechanisms. Adult female mosquitoes collected from Phnom Penh and Pailin were tested for voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) kdr (knockdown resistance) mutations commonly found in Aedes sp.-resistant populations throughout Asia (S989P, V1016G, and F1534C), as well as for other mutations (V410L, L982W, A1007G, I1011M, T1520I, and D1763Y). (3) Results: The two populations showed resistance against all the insecticides tested (&lt;90% mortality). The use of PBO (an inhibitor of P450s) strongly restored the efficacy of deltamethrin and permethrin against the two resistant populations. Sequences of regions of the vgsc gene showed a lack of kdr mutations known to be associated with pyrethroid resistance. However, four novel non-synonymous mutations (L412P/S, C983S, Q1554STOP, and R1718L) and twenty-nine synonymous mutations were detected. It remains to be determined whether these mutations contribute to pyrethroid resistance. (4) Conclusions: Pyrethroid resistance is occurring in two Ae. albopictus populations originating from urban and rural areas of Cambodia. The resistance is likely due to metabolic resistance specifically involving P450s monooxygenases. The levels of resistance against different insecticide classes are a cause for concern in Cambodia. Alternative tools and insecticides for controlling dengue vectors should be used to minimize disease prevalence in the country.
<h2>Abstract</h2><h3>Background</h3> Dermoscopic appearance of basal cell carcinomas (BCC) and melanomas guide diagnosis and may be influenced by anatomic location. <h3>Objective</h3> We aimed to investigate the morphometric differences between anatomic sites of the head and neck(H&N) versus other body sites in basal cell carcinomas and melanomas and how these differences may impact neural network model accuracy. <h3>Methods</h3> Morphometric image analysis of the BCCs(n=422) and melanomas(n=868) from the publicly available HAM10000 dataset was performed using an open-source image analysis software. Univariate and multivariate statistical analysis was done to identify differences between H&N and other anatomic sites. The multifactorial data was further interrogated with dimensionality reduction techniques. Randomly generated neural networks with different anatomic proportions of training data were used to assess how these features influence diagnostic accuracy. <h3>Results</h3> Fifty-three univariate and 11 multivariate features were found to be statistically significant in the BCC group(<i>P</i><0.05). Thirteen univariate and 8 multivariate features were statistically significant in the melanoma group(<i>P</i><0.05). Dimensionality reduction via linear discriminant analysis of the BCC groups revealed modest separation of the data by anatomical site. Melanomas appeared to be more homogenous across anatomic sites. Morphometric features significantly influenced neural network accuracies in classifying BCCs, with a mix of H&N and other site training data resulting in the best models(<i>P</i><0.05). <h3>Conclusion</h3> Morphometric features and the anatomic composition of BCC training data may influence the accuracy of AI models. Model developers should be aware of the anatomic distribution of their training datasets and report site-specific validation metrics.
<h3>Introduction</h3> Frontalis suspension surgery (FSS) is the established surgical treatment for severe ptosis. Limitations of this technique includes need for patient engagement to raise the eyelid, oedema and infection at the incision sites, as well as facial scarring. This study carries out an anatomical investigation into an alternative surgical approach which aims to minimise these limitations. <h3>Aims</h3> To carry out a cadaveric demonstration of surgical techniques, comparing FSS to an alternative approach. <h3>Methods</h3> A fresh frozen cadaveric head specimen was used to demonstrate the FSS procedure and the alternative approach. Outcomes were recorded by photographs. This included the post-operative palpebral fissure height (PFH), as well as the capacity for the eyelids to close post-operation. The aesthetic outcome of both procedures was also analysed. <h3>Results</h3> The proposed surgical technique and the FSS method both achieved a post-op PFH measurement within the normal range at 7mm following procedures. The study also demonstrated that the proposed technique allowed for full eyelid closure against the retracting tension of the sling. The aesthetic outcome of the proposed surgical method was superior to the FSS technique by achieving a natural eye contour while eliminating brow incision scars. <h3>Conclusion</h3> The study presents a successful cadaveric demonstration of a novel surgical procedure for treatment of severe ptosis. This procedure offers resolutions for multiple adverse effects of FSS, as well as functional and aesthetic limitations. However, the higher risk of lagophthalmos is an anticipated concern. This requires further research into the mechanical compatibility of this technique in vivo.
<h3>Introduction</h3> The number of women training in surgical specialties has sharply increased over the last 30 years. As a consequence, these female surgical trainees are having children during their training programmes presenting numerous challenges for both the training programme directors and the trainees themselves. When faced with a prolonged break from surgical training, for example maternity leave, simulation is a safe and effective method of revising surgical skills. <h3>Aims</h3> This study aims to describe the experience of returning to work after maternity leave as an ophthalmology trainee, and how simulation impacted that experience. <h3>Methods</h3> A collaborative autoethnographic approach was used to illustrate an in-depth account of an ophthalmology trainee returning to work from maternity leave. A reflective account was written which guided two interviews. These were then transcribed, and thematic analysis was performed. <h3>Results</h3> A traumatic shift in one's concept of self, self-image, and social identity was the consequence of the conflicting maternity leave and working surgeon cultures. Low self-esteem, perceived stereotypes and imposter syndrome could be conquered with a good support network. Enhancements in paediatric clinical skills, communication skills with parents and self-reflection were reported, however a widespread disapproval of simulation amongst senior surgical trainees was also illustrated. <h3>Conclusion</h3> This study reveals important systemic issues within the workplace and psychological hurdles which were confronted on returning from maternity leave. This can facilitate support mechanisms for surgical trainees returning from maternity leave, by informing surgical training programme directors and promoting further research into this significant area.
<ns3:p>This study addresses the underexplored issue of climate migration in non-governmental organisations (NGOs) communication, which is particularly relevant given the anticipated effects of climate change on migratory patterns. It paints a richer picture of NGOs’ visual and textual discourses on climate migration and delves into the ways in which NGOs' depictions of climate migrants reinforce the 'us' and 'them' dichotomy that characterises policy and media circuits' wider debate on this issue. NGOs visual practises and textual narratives depoliticize climate migrants by underlining their otherness and propensity to bring social instability and disturbance. This raises doubts about the efficacy of climate migration-related online public education and policy advocacy efforts run by NGOs. This paper innovates as it encourages NGOs to create new ways of depicting climate refugees. It provides a framework for thinking about the role that NGOs could play in creating new ways of discussing climate migration.</ns3:p>
<title>Abstract</title> <bold>Background:</bold> Neck postures can affect cervical intradiscal pressure (CIDP) and contribute to intervertebral disc (IVD) pathologies. Despite neck flexion and protraction posture prevalence and potential impact on cervical IVD health, no studies have investigated CIDP during end-range protraction and retraction. This study investigated (1) CIDP differences between cervical traction, six sagittal plane cervical end-ranges, and neutral posture; (2) CIDP and segmental cervical range of motion (ROM) correlation; and (3) CIDP measurement reliability. <bold>Methods:</bold> Seven cadaveric specimens, mean age 80.6±7.2 years, had cervical segmental ROM assessed by lateral radiographs and CIDP responses measured by fiberoptic pressure sensors in C4-5, C5-6, and C6-7 IVDs for supine end-range chin to neck, chin to sternum, protraction-flexion, occiput to neck, occiput to thorax, retraction-extension, and neutral traction. <bold>Results:</bold> Friedman tests revealed greater CIDP in (1) chin to sternum as compared to traction at C4-5, C5-6 and C6-7 (<italic>p</italic>&lt;.02); (2) chin to sternum as compared to retraction-extension at C5-6 and C6-7 (<italic>p</italic>=.027); and (3) chin to sternum as compared to protraction-flexion at C5-6 (<italic>p</italic>=.042). End-range postures demonstrated moderate effect sizes on CIDP at C4-5 (ES=.31), C5-6 (ES=.46), and C6-7 (ES=.36) using Kendall’s W. Strong correlations between cervical segmental ROM and CIDP were identified at C4-5 chin to neck, <italic>r</italic><sub>S</sub>=.79, <italic>p</italic>=.04; C5-6 occiput to thorax, <italic>r</italic><sub>S</sub>=.79, <italic>p</italic>=.04; and C6-7 protraction-flexion, <italic>r</italic><sub>S</sub>=.82, <italic>p</italic>=.02. Reliability was good to excellent for CIDP and segmental ROM measurements (ICC&gt;.92, 95%CI .86-.98). <bold>Conclusions:</bold> Consistent chin to sternum increases and traction decreases in CIDP occurred at all cervical IVD levels. The CIDP tended to increase during flexion end-ranges at all IVD levels, while extension, protraction, and retraction tended to decrease at C5-6, C6-7 and increase at C4-5. Large positive or negative CIDP variations with even larger standard deviations were observed within and between cervical IVD segments during various postures.
<title>Abstract</title> Background Between 25–75% of people with persistent post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC) experience cognitive difficulties, compromising functional ability, quality of life, and activities of daily living, including work. However, despite this significant morbidity, there is a paucity of interventions for this disorder that have undergone evaluation within a formal trial setting. Therefore, we have developed a cognitive rehabilitation programme, specifically designed to address the cognitive symptoms of PASC, notably impaired attention and processing speed, while also accounting for other PASC symptoms (fatigue, post-exertional malaise) that may aggravate the cognitive impairment. This study protocol outlines a randomised controlled trial (RCT) designed to evaluate the effectiveness of this programme compared to standard clinical care. Methods This is a multi-centre, parallel-group, individually randomised control trial, comparing standard clinical care with and without cognitive rehabilitation. We will recruit 120 non-hospitalised adults (aged 30–60 years) from three NHS sites in England with a history of COVID-19 infection and cognitive impairment persisting more than three months after the acute infection. Participants will be randomised (1:1) to the intervention or control groups, with the latter represented as a provision of standard clinical care without cognitive rehabilitation. The cognitive rehabilitation programme consists of ten one-hour sessions, delivered weekly. Outcomes will be collected at baseline, three and six months, with participant-defined goal-attainment scores, relating to functional goals, at three months as the primary outcome measure. Secondary outcomes will be cognitive function, measures of quality of life, social functioning, mental health, fatigue, sleep, post-exertional malaise, and social and health care service use. We will also evaluate the health-economic benefits of cognitive rehabilitation in this population. Discussion Cognitive impairment in PASC is a major cause of functional disability with no effective treatment. Accordingly, we will undertake an RCT of cognitive rehabilitation, the protocol of which is published here. If this trial is successful in delivering improvements in trial outcomes, it will address a major unmet need relating to this emergent disorder, with a significant impact on affected individuals and the wider health economy. Trial registration NCT05731570.
<title>Abstract</title> Human exposure to environmental contaminants is inevitable due to lifestyle, geographical proximity to the source, socioeconomic status, and the omnipresence of pollutants. The growing body of literature has advanced our understanding of the potential toxicity of a wide range of contaminants, from pharmaceuticals to nano plastics, however, knowledge gaps still exist. Homosalate (HS) and Triphenyl Phosphate (TPP) are chemical compounds of different commercial products used extensively by consumers. Both chemicals have been detected in the human bloodstream, raising concerns about the potential adverse effects on the cardiovascular system and human health. In this study, we harness the potential of human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSCs-CMs) as a model to test the effect of these two chemicals on cardiac gene expression profiles, using the quantitative PCR method. Our findings showed that continuous exposure to HS and TPP at 30 and 60 µM doses for 24 hours leads to a dose-dependent significant reduction in the expression of the key cardiac structural and functional genes (TNNT2, TNNC1, MYH-6, MYH-7, MYL-2, ACTN2, and MYBPC3). Thus, this study demonstrated the feasibility of using hiPSCs-CMs as an in vitro model to access cardiotoxic and other functional parameters.
<title>Abstract</title> Mismatches between perceived and veridical physiological signals during false feedback (FFB) can bias emotional judgements. Paradigms using auditory FFB suggest perceived changes in heart rate (HR) increase ratings of emotional intensity irrespective of feedback type (increased or decreased HR), implicating right anterior insula as a mismatch comparator between exteroceptive and interoceptive information. However, few paradigms have examined effects of somatosensory FFB. Participants rated the emotional intensity of randomized facial expressions while they received 20 second blocks of pulsatile somatosensory stimulation at rates higher than HR, lower than HR, equivalent to HR, or no stimulation during a functional magnetic resonance neuroimaging scan. FFB exerted a bidirectional effect on reported intensity ratings of the emotional faces, increasing over the course of each 20 second stimulation block. Neuroimaging showed FFB engaging regions indicative of affective touch processing, embodiment, and reflex suppression. Contrasting higher vs lower HR FFB revealed engagement of right insula and centres supporting socio-emotional processing. Results indicate that exposure to pulsatile somatosensory stimulation can influence emotional judgements though its progressive embodiment as a perceived interoceptive arousal state, biasing how affective salience is ascribed to external stimuli. Results are consistent with multimodal integration of priors and prediction-error signalling in shaping perceptual judgments.
<title>Abstract</title> With the increasing number of older, frail, disabled and dying persons in US prisons and other Western nations, awareness of the need and value of high-quality peer care is growing. This paper provides a qualitative analysis of the perceptions and experiences of male and female peer carers in two US prisons regarding their roles. The data in this paper were collected via two focus groups (n = 15) and analysed using thematic analysis. The findings were organised using Bronfenbrenner’s (2000) ecological systems framework and emphasize the issues that hold meaning for the male and female peer caregivers, and the factors that motivated and sustained them in their roles, often in the face of complex inter-personal and environmental stressors. Three thematic areas emerged: ‘motivation and benefits’, ‘challenges and costs’, and ‘learning’ associated with caregiving. The findings reveal there are several differences and similarities between male and female caregiver experiences. However, both groups enjoyed intrinsic and extrinsic rewards associated with their roles. Male peer caregivers appear to be motivated by issues related to identity, masculinity, and religious beliefs, while women were driven by the value of meaningful relationships. To our knowledge this is the first paper to describe and contrast the views and experiences of male and female peer caregivers in prisons.
2][3][4][5] These inequalities vary by sexual orientation and gender identity (SOGI) and other intersecting factors such as race, (dis)ability, and socio-economic status.Although there remain methodological limitations and gaps in the evidence base, [6][7][8][9][10] what is clear is that LGBTQIA+ people continue to experience inequalities in health and the provision of and access to culturally competent health care across the European Union (E.U.) and elsewhere.This is despite legislation, namely Article 21 of the E.U.Charter of Fundamental Rights, which explicitly prohibits discrimination based on any grounds such as sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, or sexual orientation.Furthermore, Article 10 of the E.U.Treaty on the Functioning of the E.U. emphasizes the E.U.'s responsibility to combat intolerance towards sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, and sex characteristics (SOGIGESC).While legislation provides a foundation to combat discrimination against unassailable groups and identities, it is not enough to prevent or even redress inequalities in health status for LGBTQIA+ people. 11This is partly because some European countries continue upholding so-called traditional and normative ideas of heterosexuality and cisgender identities as the only acceptable characteristics in society.In doing so, this, inter alia, undermines and denigrates the rights and dignity of LGBTQIA+ individuals.Only in recent years have an increasing number of E.U.Member States acknowledged the existence of LGBTQIA+ inequalities in health status and care provision, as well as in other domains such as education, housing, foster care, and juvenile justice.
A complete map of the external sense organs shows how fruit fly larvae detect different aspects of their environment.
A new analytical solution to a non-linear heat transfer equation in a spherically-symmetric droplet is suggested. All thermophysical properties inside the droplet are considered to be close to their average values. This allows us to consider the non-linearity of this equation as weak. The solution is presented as T=T0+T1, where T0 is the solution to a linear heat conduction equation, and T1≪T0. The equation for T1 is presented as a linear heat conduction equation with a source term depending on the distribution of T0 and its spatial derivatives inside the droplet. The latter equation is solved analytically alongside the linear equation for T0, and the final solution is presented as T=T0+T1. The predictions of the numerical code in which this solution was implemented are verified based on a comparison of those predictions with the predictions of COMSOL Multiphysics code using input parameter values that are typical for nanofluid (water and SiO2 nanoparticles) droplet evaporation in atmospheric conditions. It is demonstrated that for these experiments T1≪T0 which justifies the applicability of the linear heat conduction equation used for the analysis of this process. Small differences in the temperatures predicted by both non-linear and linear models lead to a much more noticeable difference in integral characteristics such as time before the start of the formation of the cenosphere when the mass fraction of nanoparticles at the droplet surface reaches about 40%.
A new mathematical model for spheroidal droplet heating and evaporation is proposed. This model takes into account the effect of liquid finite thermal conductivity and is based on the previously obtained analytical solution for the vapour mass fraction at the droplet surface and a new correlation for the convective heat transfer coefficient incorporated into the numerical code. The heat transfer equation in the liquid phase is solved numerically using the finite-element heat transfer module of COMSOL Multiphysics. It is shown that the lifetimes of spheroidal (prolate and oblate) droplets is shorter than that of spherical droplets of the same volume. The difference in the lifetimes of spheroidal and spherical droplets, predicted by the new model, is shown to increase with increasing aspect ratios for prolate droplets and decreasing aspect ratios for oblate droplets. As in the case of stationary spherical droplets, the d2-law is shown to be valid for spheroidal droplets after the completion of the heat-up period. The predictions of this model agree with experimental observations. The duration of the heat-up period is shown to decrease with increasing aspect ratios for prolate droplets and decreasing aspect ratios for oblate droplets. The maximal surface temperatures are predicted near the regions where the surface curvature is maximal. The aspect ratios are shown to be weak functions of time, in agreement with experimental observations.
A novel analytical solution to the time-dependent heat transfer equation for a multi-layer wall considering the contribution of phase change is obtained. Based on this solution a new numerical algorithm is developed for the analysis of variations in temperature and heat flux in a three-layer wall of a building in the presence of transient ambient temperature. In this algorithm, the new analytical solution at the end of the previous time step is used as the initial condition for the following time step with adjusted values of input parameters (ambient temperature). The novel algorithm is verified based on a comparison of the predictions of COMSOL Multiphysics (version 6.1) with its predictions for the same input parameters assuming that the time dependence of the ambient temperature follows the sine law. The new code is used for the analysis of heat transfer through a three-layer building wall assuming typical continental climate conditions. The inner and outer layers were filled with polyurethane foam, while a thin middle layer, located in the centre of the wall, was filled with the phase-change material (paraffin). Using the new numerical algorithm it is demonstrated that the presence of the thin paraffin layer in the wall leads to two orders of magnitude reduction in the amplitude of temperature oscillations on the room side of the wall compared to those on its outer side. It is shown that the presence of paraffin layer in the wall leads to an increase in the phase shift between the temperature on the outer side of the wall and the heat flux on the room side from about 1 hour (homogeneous wall) to about 5.5 hours (wall with the paraffin layer).
Abstract Accessible SARS-CoV-2-specific immunoassays may inform clinical management in people with HIV, particularly in case of persisting immunodysfunction. We prospectively studied their application in vaccine recipients with HIV, purposely including participants with a history of advanced HIV infection. Participants received one (n = 250), two (n = 249) or three (n = 42) doses of the BNT162b2 vaccine. Adverse events were documented through questionnaires. Sample collection occurred pre-vaccination and a median of 4 weeks post-second dose and 14 weeks post-third dose. Anti-spike and anti-nucleocapsid antibodies were measured with the Roche Elecsys chemiluminescence immunoassays. Neutralising activity was evaluated using the GenScript cPass surrogate virus neutralisation test, following validation against a Plaque Reduction Neutralization Test. T-cell reactivity was assessed with the Roche SARS-CoV-2 IFNγ release assay. Primary vaccination (2 doses) was well tolerated and elicited measurable anti-spike antibodies in 202/206 (98.0%) participants. Anti-spike titres varied widely, influenced by previous SARS-CoV-2 exposure, ethnicity, intravenous drug use, CD4 counts and HIV viremia as independent predictors. A third vaccine dose significantly boosted anti-spike and neutralising responses, reducing variability. Anti-spike titres &gt; 15 U/mL correlated with neutralising activity in 136/144 paired samples (94.4%). Three participants with detectable anti-S antibodies did not develop cPass neutralising responses post-third dose, yet displayed SARS-CoV-2 specific IFNγ responses. SARS-CoV-2 vaccination is well-tolerated and immunogenic in adults with HIV, with responses improving post-third dose. Anti-spike antibodies serve as a reliable indicator of neutralising activity. Discordances between anti-spike and neutralising responses were accompanied by detectable IFN-γ responses, underlining the complexity of the immune response in this population.
Abstract Aim Colorectal cancer (CRC) patients need CRC‐specific dietary guidance, but often lack access to adequate nutritional information and support. This scoping review identified study interventions, online resources, which have been produced to support nutritional care self‐management for CRC patients from diagnosis, through treatment and into survivorship and guidelines to underpin these. Methods The review was carried out in accordance with the JBI method for Scoping Reviews. Study interventions, online resources that support the self‐management of nutrition and diet in CRC patients were eligible for inclusion, along with CRC‐specific guidelines. Searches up to February 2023, were carried out via MEDLINE, CINAHL, PsycInfo, Embase, and Web of Science for published literature and ProQuest Dissertations, Theses Global, TRIP Medical Database, and Google search engines for grey literature. Two reviewers independently screened titles and abstracts, and relevant full texts for inclusion. Data were analysed descriptively. Results Eight study interventions, 74 online resources and three guidelines specifically aimed at CRC patients were included in the review. Study interventions were heterogenous with respect to duration, whether it was personalized, who supported delivery and which guidelines underpinned the intervention. Three study interventions resulted in improved quality of life and one lengthened survival. A total of 36 (48.6%) online resources were produced by UK charity organizations. Most of the included information was for patients after completing treatment. Specific advice for patients with a stoma was lacking. Some of the online resources provided conflicting advice. The three guidelines explained how dietary adjustments can help address symptoms related to cancer or treatment and two provided more specific guidance on making dietary changes, with specific examples of how to tailor dietary advice to patient needs. Conclusion This scoping review of study interventions, online resources, and guidelines highlighted the need for reliable, detailed, and personalized information to help CRC patients to self‐manage their nutritional care.
Abstract Aims We aimed to identify mechanisms underlying the tolerance of Proteus mirabilis—a common cause of catheter associated urinary tract infection—to the clinically used biocides chlorhexidine (CHD) and octenidine (OCT). Methods and results We adapted three clinical isolates to grow at concentrations of 512 µg ml−1 CHD and 128 µg ml−1 OCT. Genetic characterization and complementation studies revealed mutations inactivating the smvR repressor and increasing smvA efflux expression were associated with adaptation to both biocides. Mutations in mipA (encoding the MltA interacting protein) were less prevalent than smvR mutations and only identified in CHD adapted populations. Mutations in the rppA response regulator were exclusive to one adapted isolate and were linked with reduced polymyxin B susceptibility and a predicted gain of function after biocide adaptation. Biocide adaptation had no impact on crystalline biofilm formation. Conclusions SmvR inactivation is a key mechanism in both CHD and OCT tolerance. MipA inactivation alone confers moderate protection against CHD, and rppA showed no direct role in either CHD or OCT susceptibility.
Abstract Although previous research has explored the link between plant-based diets and mental health outcomes, there has been limited study on the quality levels of plant foods in this context. This study was conducted on 733 adolescent girls from cities in northeastern Iran. The validated Iranian version of the Insomnia Severity Index, SF-12v2 questionnaire and Persian version of the Beck Depression Inventory used to assess insomnia and poor quality of life (QoL) and depression, respectively. Dietary intakes assessed using a valid and reliable food frequency questionnaire. The association of scores of plant based dietary index (PDI) and poor QoL, depression and insomnia explored by binary logistic regression. The unadjusted model showed subjects in the highest quartile of healthy PDI had lower chances of insomnia than those in the lowest quartile (OR: 0.50; 95% CI 0.27–0.91, P = 0.024). The association persisted across various adjusted models. Subjects in the highest quartile of unhealthy PDI (uPDI) had higher chances of depression than those in the lowest quartile (OR: 1.83; 95% CI 1.09–3.08, P = 0.022). The significance of the association was maintained after adjusting for other confounders. A healthy plant-based dietary index is associated with a lower odds of insomnia. An unhealthy plant-based dietary index was associated to an increased chance of depression. Findings need to be confirmed by future studies.
Abstract Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating motor neuron disease. The immunosuppressive functions of regulatory T lymphocytes (Tregs) are impaired in ALS, and correlate to disease progression. The phase 2a IMODALS trial reported an increase in Treg number in ALS patients following the administration of low‐dose (ld) interleukin‐2 (IL‐2). We propose a pharmacometabolomics approach to decipher metabolic modifications occurring in patients treated with ld‐IL‐2 and its relationship with Treg response. Blood metabolomic profiles were determined on days D1, D64, and D85 from patients receiving 2 MIU of IL‐2 ( n = 12) and patients receiving a placebo ( n = 12). We discriminated the three time points for the treatment group (average error rate of 42%). Among the important metabolites, kynurenine increased between D1 and D64, followed by a reduction at D85. The percentage increase of Treg number from D1 to D64, as predicted by the metabolome at D1, was highly correlated with the observed value. This study provided a proof of concept for metabolic characterization of the effect of ld‐IL‐2 in ALS. These data could present advances toward a personalized medicine approach and present pharmacometabolomics as a key tool to complement genomic and transcriptional data for drug characterization, leading to systems pharmacology.
Abstract Android malware has become an increasingly important threat to individuals, organizations, and society, posing significant risks to data security, privacy, and infrastructure. As malware evolves in sophistication and complexity, the detection and mitigation of these malicious software instances have become more challenging and time consuming since the required number of features to identify potential malware can be very high. To address this issue, we have developed an effective feature selection methodology for malware detection in Android. The critical concern in the field of malware detection is the complexity of algorithms and the use of features that are used to detect malware. The present paper delivers a methodology for pre-processing datasets to select the most optimal features that will allow detecting malware, while maintaining very high accuracy. The proposed methodology has been tested on two real world datasets and the results indicate that the number of features is significantly reduced from 489 to between 19 and 28 for the first dataset and from 9503 to between 9 and 27 for the second dataset, whilst the accuracy is maintained as if all features were used.
Abstract Antimicrobial Resistance is a threat to individual and to population health and to future generations, requiring “collective sacrifices” in order to preserve antibiotic efficacy. ‘Who should make the sacrifices?’ and ‘Who will most likely make them?’ are ethical concerns posited as potentially manageable through Antimicrobial Stewardship. Antimicrobial stewardship almost inevitably involves a form of clinical cost-benefit analysis that assesses the possible effects of antibiotics to treat a diagnosed infection in a particular patient. However, this process rarely accounts properly for patients – above and beyond assessments of potential (non)compliance or adherence to care regimes. Drawing on a vignette of a pregnant woman of colour and migrant diagnosed with Mycoplasma genitalium, a sexually transmissible bacterium, this article draws out some of the ethical, speculative, and practical tensions and complexities involved in Antimicrobial Stewardship. We argue that patients also engage in a form of cost-benefit analysis influenced by experiences of reproductive and social (in)justice and comprising speculative variables - to anticipate future possibilities. These processes have the potential to have effects above and beyond the specific infection antimicrobial stewardship was activated to address. We contend that efforts to practice and research antimicrobial stewardship should accommodate and incorporate these variables and acknowledge the structures they emerge with(in), even if their components remain unknown. This would involve recognising that antimicrobial stewardship is intricately connected to other social justice issues such as immigration policy, economic justice, access to appropriate medical care, racism, etc.
Abstract Available evidences suggest that podoconiosis is triggered by long term exposure of bare feet to volcanic red clay soil particles. Previous genome-wide studies in Ethiopia showed association between the HLA class II region and disease susceptibility. However, functional relationships between the soil trigger, immunogenetic risk factors and the immunological basis of the disease are uncharted. Therefore, we aimed to characterise the immune profile and gene expression of podoconiosis patients relative to endemic healthy controls. Peripheral blood immunophenotyping of T cells indicated podoconiosis patients had significantly higher CD4 and CD8 T cell surface HLA-DR expression compared to healthy controls while CD62L expression was significantly lower. The levels of the activation markers CD40 and CD86 were significantly higher on monocytes and dendritic cell subsets in patients compared to the controls. RNA sequencing gene expression data indicated higher transcript levels for activation, scavenger receptors, and apoptosis markers while levels were lower for histones, T cell receptors, variable, and constant immunoglobulin chain in podoconiosis patients compared to healthy controls. Our finding provides evidence that podoconiosis is associated with high levels of immune activation and inflammation with over-expression of genes within the pro-inflammatory axis. This offers further support to a working hypothesis of podoconiosis as soil particle-driven, HLA-associated disease of immunopathogenic aetiology.
Abstract Background A number of risk and protective factors have been identified in association with the mental health of doctoral researchers (DRs). One consistent factor noted in the limited available literature is the role of the supervisor. This literature is largely quantitative though, meaning less is known about how DRs experience supervision and its impact on their mental health. Aim The aim of this study was to explore how DRs experience research supervision and its impact on their mental health and wellbeing using qualitative methods at scale. Materials and Methods We analysed the free‐text responses of 1783 UK‐based DRs collected as part of the nationwide U‐DOC survey. Results Using reflexive thematic analysis, we found two superordinate themes capturing how DRs perceive research supervision and its impact on their mental health: (1) supervision as a conduit and (2) supervision as a mirror. Discussion Broadly, these themes encapsulate how supervisors can directly trigger, exacerbate or protect against mental health problems in DRs, as well as supervision providing an opportunity for DRs to learn more about themselves and their mental health. Conclusion Our findings support the need for compulsory supervisor training on positive supervisory practices as well as understanding and responding compassionately to DRs with mental health difficulties.
Abstract Background Access to clinical services for children with foot and ankle problems are important, but unravelling the complexity of practice and service delivery can be challenging. The pursuit and implementation of research evidence is critical for driving positive change in practice, but little is understood about the approaches to knowledge and research acquisition in children foot health. Aim The aim of the study was to: (1) explore multi‐professional habits of knowledge and research evidence acquisition in children's foot health; and (2) understand how clinicians integrate information for children and their families into their practice. Methods This was a descriptive, cross‐sectional online survey. Participants were included if they worked in the UK and had experience of working within paediatric services. Results There were complete responses from 247 health professionals, representing physiotherapists ( n = 160), podiatrists ( n = 50), orthotists ( n = 25), nurses and specialists in community public health nurses (health visitors) ( n = 12). Three main themes were generated from the data: (1) Factors that influence knowledge and inform clinical practice. (2) The role of Professional Bodies in informing professional knowledge. (3) Health Professionals' views on managing health information for parents and caregivers. Conclusions This work advances understanding of the value health professionals' place in the development of materials for informing professional knowledge, as well as highlighting some of the challenges with translation of knowledge into clinical practice. The findings offer a national perspective of health professionals working on children's foot health and have highlighted that some of the most valued influences on clinical practice come from peer‐to‐peer networking.
Abstract Background and aim Communication is a key factor in intraprofessional collaboration between hospital nurses and homecare nurses in hospital‐to‐home transitions of older patients with complex care needs. Gaining knowledge of the nature of cross‐sectoral communication is crucial for understanding how nurses collaborate to ensure a seamless patient trajectory. This study explores how cross‐sectoral electronic health records communication influences collaboration between hospital nurses and homecare nurses when discharging older patients with complex care needs. Method The study is based on qualitative group interviews with six hospital nurses and 14 homecare nurses working at different hospitals and municipalities across Denmark. Data were analysed using reflexive thematic analysis, as described by Braun and Clark. Findings The themes Collecting pieces for the ‘puzzle’: Losing the holistic picture of the patient ; Working blindfolded: limited provision of and access to critical information ; and Bypassing the ‘invisible wall’: dialogue supports cohesion illustrate the impact of organisational structures within electronic health records have on hospital nurses' and homecare nurses' intraprofessional collaboration across sectors. Challenges with predefined and word‐limited elements in digital communication, and inadequate and limited access to significant medical information were identified. To compensate for the inadequacy of the electronic health records, direct contact and dialogue were emphasised as ways of fostering successful collaboration and overcoming the barriers created by electronic health records. Conclusion Despite hospital nurses' and homecare nurses' desire to conduct holistic patient assessments, their ability to collaborate was hindered by failures in electronic health record communication resulting from restrictive organisational structures across sectors. Thus, it became necessary for hospital nurses and homecare nurses to bypass the electronic health record system and engage in dialogue to provide holistic care when discharging older patients with complex care needs. However, by hospital nurses and homecare nurses compensating for counter‐productive organisational structures, problems brought about by the electronic health record system paradoxically remain invisible.
Abstract Background and aim Long Covid can be a stigmatising condition, particularly in people who are disadvantaged within society. This may prevent them seeking help and could lead to widening health inequalities. This co-produced study with a Community Advisory Board of people with Long Covid aimed to understand healthcare and wider barriers and stigma experienced by people with probable Long Covid. Methods An active case finding approach was employed to find adults with probable, but not yet clinically diagnosed, Long Covid in two localities in London (Camden and Merton) and Derbyshire, England. Interviews explored the barriers to care, and the stigma faced by participants and analysed thematically. This study forms part of the STIMULATE-ICP Collaboration. Findings Twenty-three interviews were completed. Participants reported limited awareness of what Long Covid is and the available pathways to management. There was considerable self-doubt among participants, sometimes reinforced by interactions with healthcare professionals. Participants questioned their deservedness of seeking healthcare support for their symptoms. Hesitancy to engage with healthcare services was motivated by fear of needing more investigation and concerns regarding judgement about ability to carry out caregiving responsibilities. It was also motivated by the complexity of the clinical presentation and fear of all symptoms being attributed to poor mental health. Participants also reported trying to avoid overburdening the health system. These difficulties were compounded by experiences of stigma and discrimination. The emerging themes reaffirmed a framework of epistemic injustice in relation to Long Covid, where creating, interpreting, and conveying knowledge has varied credibility based on the teller’s identity characteristics and/or the level of their interpretive resources. Conclusion We have developed recommendations based on the findings. These include early signposting to services, dedicating protected time to listen to people with Long Covid, providing a holistic approach in care pathways, and working to mitigate stigma. Regardless of the diagnosis, people experiencing new symptoms must be encouraged to seek timely medical help. Clear public health messaging is needed among communities already disadvantaged by epistemic injustice to raise awareness of Long Covid, and to share stories that encourage seeking care and to illustrate the adverse effects of stigma. Patient or Public Contribution This study was co-produced with a Community Advisory Board (CAB) made up of twenty-three members including healthcare professionals, people with lived experience of Long Covid and other stakeholders.
Abstract Background and Aim Long Covid is often stigmatised, particularly in people who are disadvantaged within society. This may prevent them from seeking help and could lead to widening health inequalities. This coproduced study with a Community Advisory Board (CAB) of people with Long Covid aimed to understand healthcare and wider barriers and stigma experienced by people with probable Long Covid. Methods An active case finding approach was employed to find adults with probable, but not yet clinically diagnosed, Long Covid in two localities in London (Camden and Merton) and Derbyshire, England. Interviews explored the barriers to care and the stigma faced by participants and were analysed thematically. This study forms part of the STIMULATE‐ICP Collaboration. Findings Twenty‐three interviews were completed. Participants reported limited awareness of what Long Covid is and the available pathways to management. There was considerable self‐doubt among participants, sometimes reinforced by interactions with healthcare professionals (HCPs). Participants questioned their deservedness in seeking healthcare support for their symptoms. Hesitancy to engage with healthcare services was motivated by fear of needing more investigation and concerns regarding judgement about the ability to carry out caregiving responsibilities. It was also motivated by the complexity of the clinical presentation and fear of all symptoms being attributed to poor mental health. Participants also reported trying to avoid overburdening the health system. These difficulties were compounded by experiences of stigma and discrimination. The emerging themes reaffirmed a framework of epistemic injustice in relation to Long Covid, where creating, interpreting and conveying knowledge has varied credibility based on the teller's identity characteristics and/or the level of their interpretive resources. Conclusion We have codeveloped recommendations based on the findings. These include early signposting to services, dedicating protected time to listening to people with Long Covid, providing a holistic approach in care pathways, and working to mitigate stigma. Regardless of the diagnosis, people experiencing new symptoms must be encouraged to seek timely medical help. Clear public health messaging is needed among communities already disadvantaged by epistemic injustice to raise awareness of Long Covid, and to share stories that encourage seeking care and to illustrate the adverse effects of stigma. Patient or Public Contribution This study was coproduced with a CAB made up of 23 members including HCPs, people with lived experience of Long Covid and other stakeholders.
Abstract Background and aim premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) is defined as the menopause before 40 years of age, and its prevalence is reported to be two-fold higher in Iranian women than the average for woman globally. POI is associated with several cardio/cerebrovascular complications as well as an increased overall mortality. Genetic factors, and serum levels of minerals and vitamin D, have been reported to be related to the prevalence of POI. We have investigated the association between some POI -related genotypes with the serum levels of some important micronutrients. Methods One hundred and seventeen women with POI and 183 controls without any renal, hepatic, and thyroid abnormalities were recruited as part of the MASHAD study. Demographic and anthropometric features were recorded and blood samples were collected and processed. DNA was extracted from the buffy coat of blood samples from all participants and 8 POI-related single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were determined using ASO-PCR or Tetra ARMS-PCR. Serum minerals and vitamin D concentrations were measured using routine methods. Results In women with POI, serum copper, phosphate, and calcium were significantly different for those with rs244715, rs16991615, and rs4806660 genotypes, respectively. In our control population, significant differences were also found in serum copper concentrations between different genotypes of rs4806660, rs7246479, rs1046089, and rs2303369. After adjusting for all confounding factors, the women with POI carrying TC genotype (rs4806660) had a lower risk to have serum copper levels &lt; 80 (µg/dL) than those carrying a TT genotype. Furthermore, women with POI carrying GG genotype (rs244715) had a 6-fold higher risk to have serum copper levels &gt; 155 than those carrying AA genotype. Conclusion The C and G alleles of the rs4806660 and rs244715 polymorphisms respectively are independently associated with serum copper in women with POI. Further studies are necessary to investigate the association of serum copper and other micronutrients in women and other POI -related polymorphisms.
Abstract Background Better metrics to compare the impact of different antimicrobials on the gut microbiome would aid efforts to control antimicrobial resistance (AMR). Methods The Antibiotic Resistance in the Microbiome – Oxford (ARMORD) study recruited inpatients, outpatients and healthy volunteers in Oxfordshire, UK, who provided stool samples for metagenomic sequencing. Data on previous antimicrobial use and potential confounders were recorded. Exposures to each antimicrobial were considered as factors in a multivariable linear regression, also adjusted for demographics, with separate analyses for those contributing samples cross-sectionally or longitudinally. Outcomes were Shannon diversity and relative abundance of specific bacterial taxa ( Enterobacteriaceae , Enterococcus , and major anaerobic groups) and antimicrobial resistance genes (targeting beta-lactams, tetracyclines, aminoglycosides, macrolides, and glycopeptides). Results 225 adults were included in the cross-sectional analysis, and a subset of 79 patients undergoing haematopoietic stem cell transplant provided serial samples for longitudinal analysis. Results were largely consistent between the two sampling frames. Recent use of piperacillin-tazobactam, meropenem, intravenous co-amoxiclav and clindamycin were associated with large reductions in microbiome diversity and reduced abundance of anaerobes. Exposure to piperacillin-tazobactam and meropenem were associated with a decreased abundance of Enterobacteriaceae , and an increased abundance of Enterococcus and major AMR genes, but there was no evidence that these antibiotics had a greater impact on microbiome diversity than iv co-amoxiclav or oral clindamycin. In contrast, co-trimoxazole, doxycycline, antifungals and antivirals had less impact on microbiome diversity and selection of AMR genes. Conclusion Simultaneous estimation of the impact of over 20 antimicrobials on the gut microbiome and AMR gene abundance highlighted important differences between individual drugs. Some drugs in the WHO Access group (co-amoxiclav, clindamycin) had similar magnitude impact on microbiome diversity to those in the Watch group (meropenem, piperacillin-tazobactam) with potential implications for acquisition of resistant organisms. Metagenomic sequencing can be used to compare the impact of different antimicrobial agents and treatment strategies on the commensal flora.
Abstract Background Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) and Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG) infections have increased globally. Asymptomatic infections represent a significant risk of long-term complications. Men who have sex with men (MSM) are disproportionally affected, underscoring the need to offer screening programmes to this population. CT/NG Point of Care Testing (POCT) constitutes a strategic tool to improve the continuum of STI care, however extensive real-life evaluations amongst at risk populations are lacking. The aim of this study is to estimate the GeneXpert CT/NG assay performance and usability for CT and NG at genital and extragenital sites for screening amongst MSM. Methods This study was a multi-site sexual health clinic-based evaluation (Italy, Malta and Peru) with consecutive enrolment. A first void urine sample (divided in two aliquots), two oropharyngeal and two anorectal swabs were collected for each study participant. One specimen set (one for each anatomical site) was tested with the dual index test (Cepheid) at the clinics by the healthcare staff, the other set with FDA/CE approved Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests (NAATs) at the laboratory. Clinical sites and reference laboratories participated in an internal and external quality control programme. Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative likelihood ratios, positive and negative predictive values for each anatomical site were estimated using a meta-analytic approach. Results One thousand seven hundred two MSM were recruited across all clinical sites for a total of 5049 biological specimens. NG and CT were respectively detected in 274 and 287 of samples. Overall, the NG POCT sensitivity and specificity was 91.43% and 99.75% in urine (LR + 372.80, LR- 0.09), 89.68% and 99.55% in rectal specimens (LR + 197.30, LR- 0.10) and 75.87% and 98.77% at the pharynx respectively (LR + 61.94, LR- 0.24). The CT component of the POCT sensitivity was 84.82% and specificity 99.63% in urine (LR + 228.68, LR- 0.15), 78.07% and 99.19% respectively on rectal site (LR + 96.23, LR-0.22), 67.79% and 99.88% respectively at pharyngeal site (LR + 554.89, LR- 0.32). 95.95% of MSM reported to be willing to wait for POCT results and no provider reported difficulties in terms of performance or interpretation of the results of the Xpert CT/NG. Conclusion Rapid turnaround time, ease of use and high acceptability make the Xpert CT/NG testing system a strategic tool for increasing testing frequency, reaching those not yet tested and offering the possibility of immediate treatment if needed. The assay showed good negative likelihood ratios and confirms its use to rule out CT/NG infections. Sensitivity varied across sites and pathogens. Periodic staff training at the testing sites should be mandatory.
Abstract Background Comorbid conditions may delay lung cancer diagnosis by placing demand on general practioners’ time reducing the possibility of prompt cancer investigation (“competing demand conditions”), or by offering a plausible non-cancer explanation for signs/symptoms (“alternative explanation conditions”). Method Patients in England born before 1955 and diagnosed with incident lung cancer between 1990 and 2019 were identified in the Clinical Practice Research Datalink and linked hospital admission and cancer registry data. Diagnostic interval was defined as time from first presentation in primary care with a relevant sign/symptom to the diagnosis date. 14 comorbidities were classified as ten “competing demand“ and four “alternative explanation” conditions. Associations with diagnostic interval were investigated using multivariable linear regression models. Results Complete data were available for 11870 lung cancer patients. In adjusted analyses diagnostic interval was longer for patients with “alternative explanation” conditions, by 31 and 74 days in patients with one and ≥2 conditions respectively versus those with none. Number of “competing demand” conditions did not remain in the final adjusted regression model for diagnostic interval. Conclusions Conditions offering alternative explanations for lung cancer symptoms are associated with increased diagnostic intervals. Clinical guidelines should incorporate the impact of alternative and competing causes upon delayed diagnosis.
Abstract Background Coronary artery disease (CAD) is known as the leading cause of disability and death globally. Anxiety disorders are also recognized as common types of mental disorders that substantially impact global health. Iran ranks among the countries with a high incidence of CAD and anxiety disorders. Therefore, the present study aims to determine the potential association and epidemiological aspects of anxiety and CAD within the population of Mashhad, the second most popoulos city in Iran. Methods The present study is based on extracted data from the Mashhad stroke and heart atherosclerotic disorder (MASHAD) study which is a 10-year prospective cohort study intended to assess the effects of various CAD risk factors among Mashhad city residents. Anxiety scores were assessed at the baseline using Beck Anxiety Inventory and individuals were classified based on the BAI 4-factor structure model which included autonomic, cognitive, panic, and neuromotor components. Accordingly, the association between baseline anxiety scores and the BAI four-factor model with the risk of CAD events was analyzed using SPSS software version 21. Results Based on the results, 60.4% of the sample were female, and 5.6% were classified as having severe forms of anxiety. Moreover, severe anxiety was more prevalent in females. Results showed a 1.7% risk of CAD ( p -value &lt; 0.001) over 10 years with one unit increase in anxiety score. Based on the 4-factor model structure, we found that only panic disorder could significantly increase the risk of CAD by 1.1% over the 10-year follow-up ( p -value &lt; 0.001). Conclusion Anxiety symptoms, particularly panic disorder, are independently and significantly associated with an increased overall risk of developing CAD over a 10-year period. Therefore, further studies are warranted to investigate the mechanisms through which anxiety may cause CAD, as well as possible interventions to mitigate these processes.
Abstract Background Dalbavancin’s unique properties have led to an increase in its off-licence use in complex infection and in vulnerable populations including people who inject drugs (PWID), but data remain limited. In this retrospective cohort study, we describe the characteristics, treatment rationale and outcomes for all adult inpatients treated with dalbavancin at a UK tertiary hospital. Results Fifty-eight inpatients were treated with dalbavancin between 1 January 2018 and 1 January 2021, 98.3% for off-licence diagnoses. Acute bacterial skin and skin structure infection, infective endocarditis and endovascular infections were each diagnosed in 22.4% of patients. Bone and joint infections were diagnosed in 18.9%, discitis in 12.1% and central line-associated bloodstream infections in 5.2%. Sixty-nine percent of patients were bacteraemic; 52.5% Staphylococcus aureus, 5.0% MRSA. Two mild adverse reactions were attributed to dalbavancin. Treatment was successful in 43 (75.4%) patients, and failed in seven (12.3%). Seven (12.3%) were lost to follow-up. Thirty-five patients (60.3%) were PWID, with low median age (41.0 years) and Charlson Comorbidity scores (0). Self-discharge was taken by 17.1% of PWID, and 20.6% were lost to follow-up. At 90 days, three (8.6%) PWID were deceased. Conclusions In this first UK cohort, dalbavancin was used off licence and in persons facing barriers to conventional therapies. Where data is available, it was safe and effective. Dalbavancin appears a potentially valuable tool in improving outcomes for PWID.
Abstract Background Dual point-of-care tests (POCTs) for the simultaneous detection of antibodies to HIV and syphilis have been developed. Since community-based organisations (CBO) are effective providers of HIV and syphilis testing among men who have sex with men (MSM), evaluation of the utility of these dual tests at CBO testing services is a high priority. The aim of this study is to determine the feasibility of performing dual HIV-syphilis POCT testing among both users and providers at these non-clinical sites. Methods This evaluation assessed the utility of two lateral flow immunochromatographic antibody technologies for dual screening for HIV/syphilis among MSM seeking testing in four CBO testing services in Spain, Slovenia, Latvia, and Ukraine. The study’s conceptual framework divides the concept of feasibility into two inter-related domains, acceptability, and usability and further breaks it down into six subdomains: learnability, willingness, suitability, satisfaction, efficacy, and effectiveness. The feasibility analysis was performed by calculating the median score in 3 stages (for individual questions, subdomains, and domains), using a summated scores method. Results The final sample included 844 participants, 60 of which were found to be HIV test positive (7.1%) and 61 (7.2%) positive on testing for syphilis. There was a small difference (1.1%) when comparing the results of the two dual POCTs under evaluation to the tests routinely used at each site. The inter-rater agreement showed a high concordance between two independent readings. The analysis of the feasibility for the users of the services indicated good satisfaction, suitability, and willingness. In addition, among 18 providers the total mean score showed good acceptability and usability, good willingness, easy learnability, high suitability, and good efficacy, but lower satisfaction and effectiveness. The operational characteristics of both dual study POCTs were well evaluated by providers. Conclusions The introduction of dual HIV and syphilis POCTs in CBO testing services for screening of MSM is feasible, with a high acceptability and usability both for users and providers. Implementation of dual POCTs for HIV and syphilis in CBO testing services is an opportunity for scaling up integrated HIV/syphilis testing for MSM.
Abstract Background Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are amongst the most promising candidates for developing blood-based biomarkers. However, patient sample availability is a key barrier to translational research whilst most biobanks store samples of 1.5mL volume or less. To date, there is no consensus on the most suitable method of EV separation and current techniques frequently require large volumes of biofluids, complicated technology, technical expertise, or significant operating costs, which prevents their widespread adoption by less EV-focussed laboratories. Therefore, there is a need for an easy and reproducible method that separates representative EVs from clinically relevant 1mL volumes of plasma prior to subsequent biomarker identification. Methods In this study, EVs were separated from a clinically relevant 1mL volume of human plasma using four different separation techniques: size exclusion chromatography (SEC), differential ultracentrifugation, precipitation, and immunoaffinity magnetic bead capture. The EVs were characterised using several orthogonal techniques (protein quantification, nanoparticle tracking analysis, transmission electron microscopy, Western blot, single particle interferometric reflectance imaging sensing, and mass spectrometry-based proteomics) to comprehensively compare the separated samples. Results We provide examples of anticipated results highlighting that SEC-processed samples have greater protein quantification yield, greater particle yield of the expected size for EVs, and sufficient EV purity, which facilitates effective EV cargo assessment by proteomics. Moreover, we confirm significant overlap with known EV-related proteins within the Vesiclepedia database. Additionally, using single particle interferometric reflectance imaging sensing (Leprechaun®), we identify that SEC has the most representative surface tetraspanin distribution of the separated EV population compared to unprocessed plasma. Discussion Given that SEC requires minimal expertise, no complicated technology and can separate EVs within 90 min, this comparison reinforces SEC as a clinically relevant EV separation method from 1mL of plasma making it suitable for widespread implementation.
Abstract Background Family Integrated Care (FICare) has demonstrated positive outcomes for sick neonates and has alleviated the psychological burden faced by families. FICare involves structured training for professionals and caregivers along with the provision of resources to offer physical and psychological support to parents. However, FICare implementation has been primarily limited to developed countries. It remains crucial to assess the scalability of this model in overcoming social-cultural barriers and conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis. The RISEinFAMILY project aims to develop an adapted FICare model that can serve as the international standard for neonatal care, accommodating various cultural, architectural, and socio-economic contexts. Methods RISEinFAMILY is a pluri-cultural, stepped wedge cluster controlled trial conducted in Spain, Netherlands, the UK, Romania, Turkey, and Zambia. Eligible participants include infant-family dyads admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) requiring specialised neonatal care for a minimum expected duration of 7 days, provided there are no comprehension barriers. Notably, this study will incorporate a value of implementation analysis on FICare, which can inform policy decisions regarding investment in implementation activities, even in situations with diverse data. Discussion This study aims to evaluate the scalability and adaptation of FICare across a broader range of geographical and sociocultural contexts and address its sustainability. Furthermore, it seeks to compare the RISEinFAMILY model with standard care, examining differences in short-term newborn outcomes, family mental health, and professional satisfaction. Trial registration ClinicalTrials.gov NCT06087666. Registered on 17 October 2023. Protocol version: 19 December 2022; version 2.2.
Abstract Background Final year medical students and postgraduate doctors regularly contend with feelings of under-preparedness when transitioning into new areas of clinical practice. This lack of confidence is most evident in the context of on-call work which frequently requires sound clinical prioritisation, rigorous decision making and the management of acutely unwell patients, often with reduced senior support and staffing. This has prompted the emergence of on-call simulation which seeks to enhance participant confidence in performing on-call tasks and facilitate the development of key clinical and non-technical skills. This narrative review examined the use of on-call simulation in medical student and newly qualified doctor cohorts, its effectiveness in achieving its stated outcomes and to identify novel areas for the development of existing models. Method A search strategy was developed in conjunction with a specialist medical librarian. OVID Medline and Embase searches identified articles related to the use and design of on-call simulation in medical education with no restrictions placed upon date or language of publication. Key findings from articles were summarised to develop comprehensive themes for discussion. Results Twenty Three unique publications were reviewed which unanimously reported that on-call simulation had a positive effect on self-reported participant confidence in performing on-call roles. Furthermore the value on-call simulation when used as an induction activity was also evident. However, there was limited evidence around improved patient and performance outcomes following simulation. It also remains resource intensive as an educational tool and there is a distinct absence of interprofessional education in current models. Conclusions We concluded that on-call simulation must adopt an interprofessional educational approach, incorporating other clinical roles. Further studies are needed to characterise the impact on patient outcomes. It remains highly useful as a confidence-boosting induction activity, particularly in specialities where clinical exposure is limited. Virtual and tabletop simulation formats, could potentially address the resource burden of manikin-based models, particularly with ever growing demands on medical educators and the expansion of training posts.
Abstract Background Follow-up of COVID-19 recovered patients to discover important adverse effects on other organs is required. The psychological health of COVID-19 patients may be affected after recovery. Aim We aimed to evaluate the association between adherence to the Nordic diet (ND) and psychological symptoms caused by COVID-19 after recovery. Method Dietary data on 246 qualified adults (123 cases and 123 controls). The dietary intake in this case-control study was calculated by a reliable and valid food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). Depression Anxiety Stress Scale (DASS), Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Insomnia Severity Index (ISI), and Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36) were used to analyze participant’s anxiety, stress, depression, sleep quality, insomnia, and quality of life of participants. Results There was a significant inverse relationship between total anxiety, stress, and depression scores and the intake of whole grains ( P &lt; 0.05). Furthermore, there was a significant inverse association between depression and fruit intake ( P &lt; 0.05). A significant negative correlation was found between insomnia and sleep quality and the intake of root vegetables ( P &lt; 0.05). In the multinomial-regression model, a significant association between the Nordic diet and anxiety, stress, and depression was found only in the case group (OR = 0.719, 95% CI 0.563–0.918, p-value = 0.008; OR = 0.755, 95% CI 0.609–0.934, P-value = 0.010, and, OR = 0.759, 95% CI 0.602–0.956, P-value = 0.019 respectively). Conclusion Adherence to the Nordic diet might reduce anxiety, stress, and depression in recovered COVID-19 patients.
Abstract Background Gradually, society has shifted more services online, with COVID-19 highlighting digital inequalities in access to services such as healthcare. Older adults can experience such digital inequalities, yet this group is also more likely to need medical appointments, compared to younger people. With the growing digitalisation of healthcare, it is increasingly important to understand how older people can best use communicative e-health services to interact with healthcare services. This is especially if older adults are to access, and actively interact with health professionals/clinicians due to their general health decline. This review aims to synthesise older adults’ experiences and perceptions of communicative e-health services and, in turn, identify barriers and facilitators to using communicative e-health services. Methods A meta-ethnography was conducted to qualitatively synthesise literature on older adults’ experiences of using communicative e-health services. A systematic search, with terms relating to ‘older adults’, ‘e-health’, ‘technology’, and ‘communication’, was conducted on six international databases between January 2014 and May 2022. The search yielded a total of 10 empirical studies for synthesis. Results The synthesis resulted in 10 themes that may impact older adults’ perceptions and/or experiences of using communicative e-health services. These were: 1) health barriers, 2) support networks, 3) application interface/design, 4) digital literacy, 5) lack of awareness, 6) online security, 7) access to digital devices and the internet, 8) relationship with healthcare provider(s), 9) in-person preference and 10) convenience. These themes interlink with each other. Conclusion The findings suggest older adults’ experiences and perceptions of communicative e-health services are generally negative, with many reporting various barriers to engaging with online services. However, many of these negative experiences are related to limited support networks and low digital literacy, along with complicated application interfaces. This supports previous literature identifying barriers and facilitators in which older adults experience general technology adoption and suggests a greater emphasis is needed on providing support networks to increase the adoption and usage of communicative e-health services.
Abstract Background Hip hemiarthroplasty has traditionally been used to treat displaced femoral neck fractures in older, frailer patients whilst total hip replacements (THR) have been reserved for younger and fitter patients. However, not all elderly patients are frail, and some may be able to tolerate and benefit from an acute THR. Nonagenarians are a particularly heterogenous subpopulation of the elderly, with varying degrees of independence. Since THRs are performed electively as a routine treatment for osteoarthritis in the elderly, its safety is well established in the older patient. The aim of this study was to compare the safety of emergency THR to elective THR in nonagenarians. Methods A retrospective 10-year cohort study was conducted using data submitted to the National Hip Fracture Database (NHFD) across three hospitals in one large NHS Trust. Data was collected from 126 nonagenarians who underwent THRs between 1st January 2010 – 31st December 2020 and was categorised into emergency THR and elective THR groups. Mortality rates were compared between the two groups. Secondary outcomes were also compared including postoperative complications (dislocations, revision surgeries, and periprosthetic fracture), length of stay in hospital, and discharge destination. Results There was no significant difference in mortality between the two groups, with 1-year mortality rates of 11.4% and 12.1% reported for emergency and elective patients respectively ( p = 0.848). There were no significant differences in postoperative complication rate and discharge destination. Patients who had emergency THR spent 5.56 days longer in hospital compared to elective patients ( p = 0.015). Conclusion There is no increased risk of 1-year mortality in emergency THR compared to elective THR, in a nonagenarian population. Therefore, nonagenarians presenting with a hip fracture who would have been considered for a THR if presenting on an elective basis should not be precluded from an emergency THR on safety grounds. Trial registration Not necessary as this was deemed not to be clinical research, and was considered to be a service evaluation.
Abstract Background Immunotactoid glomerulopathy (ITG) is an uncommon cause of glomerular disease encountered in approximately 0.06% of native kidney biopsies. This fibrillary disease is strongly associated with haematologic disorders, including lymphoma (mainly chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma), monoclonal gammopathy, and multiple myeloma. It is usually managed with oral steroids and/or treatment of an underlying lymphoproliferative disorder. Here, we report three cases of ITG, all female patients with varying severity of the disease, timing of malignancy and required treatment. Case Scenarios: Case 1: A 76-year-old lady with no significant medical background presented in May 2020 with confusion and progressive peripheral oedema. She had AKI (serum creatinine 210 µmol/L from baseline 68 µmol/L) and a sodium of 104 mmol/l. Urine PCR was 1182 mg/mmol. She was admitted to the ITU, where hyponatraemia was managed with a good clinical response. Blood screening showed negative immune, myeloma and virology screens. Complement was low. A renal biopsy showed a diagnosis of ITG. She had an extensive malignancy screen, but no malignancy was detected. She was started on prednisolone 60 mg once daily and eventually weaned off the drug by March 2021, as she maintained remission of her disease. Two years after her initial presentation, she was seen by the ophthalmologist for a right lacrimal gland mass. This was excised, and a biopsy revealed a MALT Lymphoma. Case 2: A 50-year-old lady with splenomegaly being investigated under the haematology service was referred to our renal clinic for proteinuria in June 2019. Her serum creatinine was within normal limits, and her UPCR was 302 mg/mmol. She had no paraprotein in her blood, low serum immunoglobulins, low C3 and a negative viral screen. Perindopril, initiated by her GP, was up-titrated. Renal biopsy revealed features in keeping with Immunotactoid Glomerulopathy, and completed haematological investigations revealed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia. Her UPCR peaked at 842 mg/mmol before reducing to 190 mg/mmol within a year after treatment with Veneclotax and Rituximab after not tolerating FCR (Fludarabine, Cyclophosphamide, Rituximab) Chemotherapy. Case 3: A 69-year-old lady presented to the renal clinic with proteinuria in September 2018. She had a background of breast cancer diagnosed in 2007 (She had surgical resection followed by radiotherapy). Her 24-hour urine protein was 2g, and UPCR was 155 mg/mmol. Serum creatinine was 81 µmol/l and eGFR 66 ml/min. P- ANCA was positive, while PR3 and ANA were negative. She had bilateral leg oedema due to long-standing lymphedema. The biopsy report showed immunotactoid glomerulopathy. Regular surveillance of previous breast cancer with mammography and CT-CAP has shown no evidence of malignancy recurrence, hepatitis virology and paraprotein were negative, and C3/C4 were within normal limits. She had improved UPCR and maintained normal kidney function on full-dose Losartan. Conclusion Immunotactoid Glomerulopathy is a rare form of glomerular disease with a strong association with lymphoproliferative malignancies, which may precede, occur concomitantly or present years after the initial diagnosis. This common association highlights the need for diligence in screening for malignancy in each case, and it is a reason for careful follow-up of these patients. Treatment of underlying disorders is associated with positive renal outcomes, and in some cases, there is a good response to steroids.
Abstract Background Impingement syndrome, a common cause of shoulder pain, often leads to functional limitations. Manual thoracic therapy is frequently employed as a non-surgical intervention, but its efficacy remains debated. This review assesses the impact of manual thoracic therapy on pain reduction and functional improvement in impingement syndrome. Methods A systematic review of randomized clinical trials was conducted, focusing on studies that applied manual thoracic therapy to patients with impingement syndrome. The primary outcomes were pain reduction and functional improvement. Studies were evaluated for methodological quality using the PEDro scale, with scores ≥ 6 indicating high quality. Results Nine studies met the inclusion criteria. All studies demonstrated high methodological quality (PEDro score ≥ 6). Pain reduction was consistent across studies, with an NPRS score reduction of 0.6 to 1.5 points immediately after treatment and up to 3.2 points at follow-up. Functionality improvements were statistically significant in some studies. However, the results showed limited homogeneity, and the majority of studies did not report substantial differences between intervention and placebo groups. Conclusion This review suggests that manual thoracic therapy may lead to pain reduction in impingement syndrome, with some evidence of functional improvement. However, the variability in manual therapy techniques and the limitations in research methodologies indicate a need for further controlled studies. These findings underscore the potential of manual therapy as a supplementary treatment but also highlight the necessity for more robust clinical trials to fully ascertain its effectiveness in clinical practice. Graphic abstract
Abstract Background Increasing age increases the incidence of chronic constipation and fecal impaction. The contribution of the natural aging process to this phenotype is unclear. This study explored the effects of age on key motility patterns in the murine colon and determined the contribution that altered neurokinin 2 (NK 2 ) ‐mediated signaling made to the aging phenotype. Methods Mucosal reflexes, colonic migrating motor complexes (CMMCs) and colonic motility assays were explored in isolated ex vivo colons from 3, 12–14, 18‐ and 24‐months old mice and the NK 2 ‐mediated response determined. Electrical field stimulation (EFS) or exogenous drug application were used to explore the role of the mucosa in colonic segments. Key Results Aging reduced the force of contraction of the distal colon mucosal reflex, the frequency and force of contraction of CMMCs and the NK 2 ‐mediated component of both motility patterns. Ondansetron, a 5‐HT 3 receptor antagonist, blocked a component of both motility patterns in full thickness but not in mucosa‐free segments of the distal colon. 5, hydroxytryptamine (5‐HT) and EFS‐evoked NK 2 ‐dependent contractions were reduced with increasing age. Smooth muscle sensitivity to 5‐HT or neurokinin A (NKA) was not altered with age. In isolated colon motility assays application of NKA decreased transit time in 24‐months colon and the NK 2 antagonist GR159897 increased transit times in both 3‐ and 24‐months old colons. Conclusions and Inferences Aging impairs key motility patterns in the murine colon. These changes involve a decrease in mucosally‐evoked NK 2 ‐mediated signaling. Targeting NK 2 ‐mediated signaling may provide a novel approach to treating age‐related motility disorders in the lower bowel.
Abstract Background Increasing numbers of adults are living with the health-related consequences of Long COVID. The Episodic Disability Framework (EDF), derived from perspectives of adults living with HIV, characterizes the multidimensional and episodic nature of health-related challenges (disability) experienced by an individual. Our aim was to determine the applicability of the Episodic Disability Framework to conceptualize the health-related challenges experienced among adults living with Long COVID. Methods We conducted a community-engaged qualitative descriptive study involving online semi-structured interviews. We recruited adults who self-identified as living with Long COVID via collaborator community organizations in Canada, Ireland, United Kingdom, and United States. We purposively recruited for diversity in age, gender identity, ethnicity, sexual orientation, and time since initial COVID-19 infection. We used a semi-structured interview guide informed by the EDF to explore experiences of disability living with Long COVID, specifically health-related challenges and how challenges were experienced over time. We conducted a group-based content analysis. Results Of the 40 participants, the median age was 39 years; and the majority were white (73%), women (63%), living with Long COVID for ≥1 year (83%). Consistent with the Episodic Disability Framework, disability was described as multidimensional and episodic, characterized by unpredictable periods of health and illness. Experiences of disability were consistent with the three main components of the Framework: A) dimensions of disability (physical, cognitive, mental-emotional health challenges, difficulties with day-to-day activities, challenges to social inclusion, uncertainty); B) contextual factors, extrinsic (social support; accessibility of environment and health services; stigma and epistemic injustice) and intrinsic (living strategies; personal attributes) that exacerbate or alleviate dimensions of disability; and C) triggers that initiate episodes of disability. Conclusions The Episodic Disability Framework provides a way to conceptualize disability the multidimensional and episodic nature of disability experienced by adults living with Long COVID. The Framework provides guidance for future measurement of disability, and health and rehabilitation approaches to enhance practice, research, and policy in Long COVID.
Abstract Background It has been proposed that a greater degree of adherence to a healthy dietary pattern is associated with a lower risk of depression and a poor quality of life (QoL). The Lifelines diet score (LLDS) is a new, evidence-base scoring system to define the quality of diet. We designed a cross-sectional study to investigate the association between LLDS with depression and QoL in Iranian adolescent girls. Methods A total of 733 female adolescents were recruited from Mashhad and Sabzevar cities, Iran. Depression and QoL were assessed utilizing the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and SF-12v2 questionnaires, respectively. The LLDS was defined by dividing intakes of 12 food groups with negative or positive health effects into quintiles ranging 12 to 60 points. To explore the association between LLDS with QoL and depression, logistic regression was used in crude and adjusted models. Results The prevalence of depression and poor QoL was 24% and 49%, respectively. After adjusting for confounding factors, adolescent girls in the highest quartile of LLDS compared with the participants in the lowest quartile had a 42% lower probability of reporting depressive symptoms (OR: 0.58; 95% CI: 0.35–0.97, P = 0.03). In addition, the participants in the highest quartile of LLDS had lower odds of poor QoL compared with the subjects in the lowest quartile (OR: 0.65; 95% CI: 0.42–0.92, P = 0.04). Conclusions There is an inverse relationship between LLDS with risk of depression and poor QoL. Prospective and interventional investigations are needed to reach a clear vision.
Abstract Background Lateral epicondylitis, commonly known as “tennis elbow,” is a prevalent musculoskeletal condition affecting up to 3% of the population, primarily in individuals over 40 years old. It leads to pain and dysfunction at the lateral epicondyle, primarily involving the tendons of forearm extensor muscles, innervated by the radial nerve. Recent insights suggest a multifactorial etiology, questioning the traditional tendinopathy model. Neurodynamics, exploring nerve mechanics, emerges as a potential treatment approach. Methods A systematic review following PRISMA guidelines searched multiple databases for clinical trials investigating neurodynamic interventions for lateral epicondylitis. Inclusion criteria involved lateral epicondylitis patients receiving neurodynamic treatment, with pain, disability, and functional improvement as primary outcomes. Results Six studies met the inclusion criteria. Neurodynamic techniques, including radial nerve mobilization and home exercises, showed positive outcomes. Significant pain reduction, improved grip strength, and increased ulnar deviation angle were observed in several studies. However, heterogeneity in study design, follow-up durations, and small sample sizes limit conclusive evidence. Conclusion Neurodynamic treatment, particularly radial nerve mobilization, appears promising in alleviating pain and improving nerve mechanosensitivity in lateral epicondylitis. High-quality research is needed to establish its efficacy, considering the limitations in existing studies. A multidisciplinary approach and standardized patient inclusion criteria should be emphasized to advance the management of this condition.
Abstract Background Loss‐of‐function (LOF) variants of the angiopoietin‐like 3 (ANGPTL3) gene are reported to be associated with serum triglyceride (TG) and high‐density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL‐C) concentrations and thereby affect the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Objective In the present study, we examined the association of rs10789117 in the ANGPTL 3 gene locus and the risk of CVD in the group of people who were part of the Mashhad‐Stroke and Heart‐Atherosclerotic‐Disorders (MASHAD) cohort. Methods One thousand and two healthy individuals enrolled in this study of whom 849 subjects were healthy and 153 subjects developed CVD outcomes after 6 years of follow‐up. After a 12‐h overnight fasting, 20 mL of blood samples were collected for the measurement of fasting blood glucose and lipid profile. DNA was extracted, and the Tetra‐ARMS PCR (amplification refractory mutation system) was used for genotyping of rs10789117 in the ANGPTL3 gene. The genotype frequencies of the variant of rs10789117 in the ANGPTL3 gene were estimated using χ 2 tests. Eventually, the statistical analysis was done by SPSS version 20. Results Individuals with AC/CC genotypes (rs10789117) were found to have to greater risk of CVD events compared to AA genotype (OR = 1.43, 95%CI = 1.01–2.02, p = 0.041). There was a 1.3‐fold increase in cardiovascular events in individuals carrying the C allele of rs10789117 variant compared to non‐carriers (OR = 1.32, 95%CI = 1.06–1.72, p value = 0.038). There were significant differences between different genotypes for serum triglyceride levels within the control group, but this difference was not significant in the group with CVD. Moreover, there was a significant association between CC genotype and CVD risk in the individuals with a normal serum HDL‐C. Conclusion We have found that a rs10789117 C&gt;A in ANGPTL3 gene polymorphism was associated with incident CVD events, and this may be of value as a risk stratification biomarker in CVD in the Iranian population.
Abstract Background Low-grade inflammation and stress oxidative condition play a role in the pathogenesis of obesity, and the serum levels of these markers, such as pro-oxidant-antioxidant balance (PAB), high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), and uric acid may indicate obesity progression. In this study, we aimed to investigate the relationship between obesity with PAB, hs-CRP, and uric acid in the Iranian population. Methods This study was derived from the Mashhad Stroke and Heart Atherosclerotic Disorder (MASHAD) study. A total of 7985 subjects aged 35 to 65 years were divided into three groups according to body mass index (BMI) as: normal, overweight and obese groups. Anthropometric indices and biochemical parameters such as PAB, superoxide dismutase type 1 (SOD 1 ), hs-CRP, and uric acid were measured in all the participants. We evaluated the association of obesity with inflammatory factors by using multivariate regression analysis. Also, those participants with hypertension, an endocrine disorder, history of cardiovascular diseases and diabetes mellitus were excluded from the study. Results There was a positive significant correlation between BMI and serum PAB, hs-CRP and uric acid ( p &lt; 0.001). While no statistically significant relation was observed between BMI and SOD 1 ( p = 0.85). Multivariate regression analysis showed that the risk of overweight and obesity increased 1.02 and 1.03-fold according to increase 10 units of PAB raise in comparison to reference group (normal weight) [(odds ratio (OR): 1.02, 95% CI (1.01–1.03)] and [OR: 1.03, 95% CI (1.01–1.04)], respectively). In addition, hs-CRP serum concentration was significantly associated with a high risk of obesity [(OR: 1.02; 95% CI (1.01–1.03)]. While the high levels of serum uric acid were associated with increased odds of overweight and obesity risk [OR: 1.4; CI (1.39–1.58) and OR: 1.76; CI (1.63–1.89), respectively]. Conclusions Generally, we showed a significant association between BMI and serum PAB, hs-CRP values and uric acid levels, suggesting the role of these factors as risk stratification factors for obesity.
Abstract Background Many hospitals introduced procalcitonin (PCT) testing to help diagnose bacterial coinfection in individuals with COVID-19, and guide antibiotic decision-making during the COVID-19 pandemic in the UK. Objectives Evaluating cost-effectiveness of using PCT to guide antibiotic decisions in individuals hospitalized with COVID-19, as part of a wider research programme. Methods Retrospective individual-level data on patients hospitalized with COVID-19 were collected from 11 NHS acute hospital Trusts and Health Boards from England and Wales, which varied in their use of baseline PCT testing during the first COVID-19 pandemic wave. A matched analysis (part of a wider analysis reported elsewhere) created groups of patients whose PCT was/was not tested at baseline. A model was created with combined decision tree/Markov phases, parameterized with quality-of-life/unit cost estimates from the literature, and used to estimate costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Cost-effectiveness was judged at a £20 000/QALY threshold. Uncertainty was characterized using bootstrapping. Results People who had baseline PCT testing had shorter general ward/ICU stays and spent less time on antibiotics, though with overlap between the groups’ 95% CIs. Those with baseline PCT testing accrued more QALYs (8.76 versus 8.62) and lower costs (£9830 versus £10 700). The point estimate was baseline PCT testing being dominant over no baseline testing, though with uncertainty: the probability of cost-effectiveness was 0.579 with a 1 year horizon and 0.872 with a lifetime horizon. Conclusions Using PCT to guide antibiotic therapy in individuals hospitalized with COVID-19 is more likely to be cost-effective than not, albeit with uncertainty.
Abstract Background Multiple system atrophy (MSA), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and corticobasal syndrome (CBS) show a high prevalence and rapid progression of dysphagia, which is associated with reduced survival. Despite this, the evidence base for gastrostomy is poor, and the optimal frequency and outcomes of this intervention are not known. We aimed to characterise the prevalence and outcomes of gastrostomy in patients with these three atypical parkinsonian disorders. Method We analysed data from the natural history and longitudinal cohorts of the PROSPECT‐M‐UK study with up to 60 months of follow‐up from baseline. Survival post‐gastrostomy was analysed using Kaplan–Meier survival curves. Results In a total of 339 patients (mean age at symptom onset 63.3 years, mean symptom duration at baseline 4.6 years), dysphagia was present in &gt;50% across all disease groups at baseline and showed rapid progression during follow‐up. Gastrostomy was recorded as recommended in 44 (13%) and performed in 21 (6.2%; MSA 7, PSP 11, CBS 3) of the total study population. Median survival post‐gastrostomy was 24 months compared with 12 months where gastrostomy was recommended but not done ( p = 0.008). However, this was not significant when correcting for age and duration of symptoms at the time of procedure or recommendation. Conclusions Gastrostomy was performed relatively infrequently in this cohort despite the high prevalence of dysphagia. Survival post‐gastrostomy was longer than previously reported, but further data on other outcomes and clinician and patient perspectives would help to guide use of this intervention in MSA, PSP and CBS.
ABSTRACT Background Musculoskeletal (MSK) conditions affect over 20.3 million people in the UK, presenting a substantial economic impact on health and social services. Physiotherapy can alleviate MSK conditions, especially if delivered in the acute or sub‐acute period. However, patients often present after significant waiting times. Objectives Our analysis examined how waiting times and the number of treatments influenced physiotherapy outcomes for MSK conditions. Design Retrospective analysis of the Data for Impact, Physio First dataset. Methods Logistic regression models assessed the effects of symptom duration, treatment frequency, and other variables on pain, Patient‐Specific Functional Scores (PSFSs), and Goal Achievement (GA). Results Analysis of 15,624 patient records showed that patients treated within two weeks of symptom onset were more likely to have favourable outcomes in pain (odds ratio [OR] = 2.01, 95% Confidence Interval [95% CI] = 1.65–2.45), PSFS (OR = 1.80, 95% CI = 1.55–2.08), and GA (OR = 1.74, 95% CI = 1.51–2.01) compared to those treated after longer durations. Receiving four or more treatment sessions significantly improved outcomes compared with only one session (pain: OR = 4.64, PSFS: OR = 5.72, GA: OR = 1.94, all p 's &lt; 0.001), with no additional benefits beyond four sessions. Younger age was associated with better outcomes (approximately OR = 0.99 per year age difference). Other findings included better outcomes in males and in those with fewer previous episodes of the condition. Conclusions Shorter waiting times, a greater number of treatments, and younger patient age are associated with better physiotherapy outcomes for MSK conditions.
Abstract Background Musculoskeletal conditions are the leading contributor to global disability and health burden. Manual therapy (MT) interventions are commonly recommended in clinical guidelines and used in the management of musculoskeletal conditions. Traditional systems of manual therapy (TMT), including physiotherapy, osteopathy, chiropractic, and soft tissue therapy have been built on principles such as clinician-centred assessment , patho-anatomical reasoning, and technique specificity. These historical principles are not supported by current evidence. However, data from clinical trials support the clinical and cost effectiveness of manual therapy as an intervention for musculoskeletal conditions, when used as part of a package of care. Purpose The purpose of this paper is to propose a modern evidence-guided framework for the teaching and practice of MT which avoids reference to and reliance on the outdated principles of TMT. This framework is based on three fundamental humanistic dimensions common in all aspects of healthcare: safety , comfort , and efficiency . These practical elements are contextualised by positive communication , a collaborative context , and person-centred care . The framework facilitates best-practice, reasoning, and communication and is exemplified here with two case studies. Methods A literature review stimulated by a new method of teaching manual therapy, reflecting contemporary evidence, being trialled at a United Kingdom education institute. A group of experienced, internationally-based academics, clinicians, and researchers from across the spectrum of manual therapy was convened. Perspectives were elicited through reviews of contemporary literature and discussions in an iterative process. Public presentations were made to multidisciplinary groups and feedback was incorporated. Consensus was achieved through repeated discussion of relevant elements. Conclusions Manual therapy interventions should include both passive and active, person-empowering interventions such as exercise, education, and lifestyle adaptations. These should be delivered in a contextualised healing environment with a well-developed person-practitioner therapeutic alliance. Teaching manual therapy should follow this model.
Abstract Background Musculoskeletal pain is multidimensional and associated with significant societal impact. Persistent or chronic pain is a public health priority. A step towards high-value care is a contemporary understanding of pain. While pain-related knowledge has been examined in specific conditions (e.g. neck pain) knowledge of the public’s broader understanding regarding musculoskeletal pain per se , warrants investigation. This study examined the public’s knowledge and beliefs regarding musculoskeletal pain and pain management. Methods This observational cohort study was conducted in Guernsey (January 2019-February 2020). Participants ( n = 1656; 76.0% female) completed an online questionnaire capturing: demographics, pain experience, work absenteeism, understanding of pain and pain management, multidimensional influences, physical activity, pain catastrophising and healthcare decision-making. Statements were deemed true/false/equivocal and mapped to biopsychosocial/biomedical/neutral perspectives based upon contemporary literature. Descriptive statistics were analysed for each statement. Participants’ responses were examined for alignment to a contemporary viewpoint and themes within responses derived using a semi-quantitative approach modelled on direct content analysis. Comparisons between participants with/without pain were examined (χ 2 -squared/Wilcoxon Rank Sum test). Results Within the cohort 83.6% reported currently experiencing pain. The overarching theme was perspectives that reflected both biomedical and contemporary, multidimensional understandings of pain. Sub-themes included uncertainty about pain persistence and evidence-based means to reduce recurrence, and reliance upon healthcare professionals for guiding decision-making. Compared to those with pain, those without had a greater belief that psychological interventions may help and lower pain catastrophising. Conclusions Participants’ understanding of pain demonstrated both biomedical and multidimensional pain understanding consistent with elements of a contemporary understanding of pain.
Abstract Background Older people with multiple long-term conditions (multimorbidity) (MLTC-M) experience difficulties accessing and interacting with health and care services. Breakdowns in communication between patients and staff can threaten patient safety. To improve communication and reduce risks to patient safety in primary care, we developed an intervention: Safer Patients Empowered to Engage and Communicate about Health (SPEECH). SPEECH comprises a booklet for patients and an associated guide for staff. The booklet is designed to provide patients with information about staff and services, skills to prepare and explain, and confidence to speak up and ask. Methods A single-arm mixed methods feasibility study with embedded process evaluation. General practices in the North West of England were recruited. Participating practices invited patients aged 65+ with MLTC-M who had an appointment scheduled during the study period. Patients were asked to complete questionnaires at baseline and follow-up (four to eight weeks after being sent the patient booklet), including the Consultation and Relational Empathy measure, Empowerment Scale, Multimorbidity Treatment Burden Questionnaire, and Primary Care Patient Measure of Safety. Staff completed questionnaires at the end of the study period. A sub-sample of patients and staff were interviewed about the study processes and intervention. Patients and the public were involved in all aspects of the study, from generation of the initial idea to interpretation of findings. Results Our target of four general practices were recruited within 50 days of the study information being sent out. A fifth practice was recruited later to boost patient recruitment. We received expressions of interest from 55 patients (approx. 12% of those invited). Our target of 40 patient participants completed baseline questionnaires and were sent the SPEECH booklet. Of these, 38 (95%) completed follow-up. Patients found the intervention and study processes acceptable, and staff found the intervention acceptable and feasible to deliver. Conclusions Our findings suggest the intervention is acceptable, and it would be feasible to deliver a trial to assess effectiveness. Prior to further evaluation, study processes and the intervention will be updated to incorporate suggestions from participants. Trial registration The study was registered on the ISRCTN registry (ISRCTN13196605: https://doi.org/10.1186/ISRCTN13196605 ).
Abstract Background Prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) can result in lifelong disabilities known as foetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD) and is associated with childhood growth deficiencies and increased bone fracture risk. However, the effects of PAE on the adult skeleton remain unclear and any potential sexual dimorphism is undetermined. Therefore, we utilised a murine model to examine sex differences with PAE on in vitro bone formation, and in the juvenile and adult skeleton. Methods Pregnant C57BL/6J female mice received 5% ethanol in their drinking water during gestation. Primary calvarial osteoblasts were isolated from neonatal offspring and mineralised bone nodule formation and gene expression assessed. Skeletal phenotyping of 4- and 12-week-old male and female offspring was conducted by micro-computed tomography (µCT), 3-point bending, growth plate analyses, and histology. Results Osteoblasts from male and female PAE mice displayed reduced bone formation, compared to control (≤ 30%). Vegfa , Vegfb , Bmp6 , Tgfbr1 , Flt1 and Ahsg were downregulated in PAE male osteoblasts only, whilst Ahsg was upregulated in PAE females. In 12-week-old mice, µCT analysis revealed a sex and exposure interaction across several trabecular bone parameters. PAE was detrimental to the trabecular compartment in male mice compared to control, yet PAE females were unaffected. Both male and female mice had significant reductions in cortical parameters with PAE. Whilst male mice were negatively affected along the tibial length, females were only distally affected. Posterior cortical porosity was increased in PAE females only. Mechanical testing revealed PAE males had significantly reduced bone stiffness compared to controls; maximum load and yield were reduced in both sexes. PAE had no effect on total body weight or tibial bone length in either sex. However, total growth plate width in male PAE mice compared to control was reduced, whilst female PAE mice were unaffected. 4-week-old mice did not display the altered skeletal phenotype with PAE observed in 12-week-old animals. Conclusions Evidence herein suggests, for the first time, that PAE exerts divergent sex effects on the skeleton, possibly influenced by underlying sex-specific transcriptional mechanisms of osteoblasts. Establishing these sex differences will support future policies and clinical management of FASD.
Abstract Background Previous studies have reported insulin resistance (IR) to be associated with hyperuricemia. In this study, we aimed to assess the possible associations between the empirical dietary index for IR (EDIR), the empirical lifestyle index for IR (ELIR), and non-insulin-based surrogates (triglyceride–glucose (TyG) index, triglyceride-to-high-density-lipoprotein-cholesterol (TG/HDL-C) ratio, metabolic score for insulin resistance (METS-IR) and TyG with body mass index (TyG-BMI)) and hyperuricemia in an Iranian population. Methods In this cross-sectional study, 6457 participants aged 35–65 years were recruited as part of the MASHAD cohort study. EDIR and ELIR were calculated using dietary intakes, body mass index, and physical activity information. Insulin resistance surrogates including TyG, TyG-BMI, TG/HDL-C, and METS-IR were calculated for all participants. Hyperuricemia was defined as serum uric acid ≥ 7 mg/dl in men or ≥ 6 mg/dl in women. Multivariable logistic regression models were applied to determine the association between indexes of IR and hyperuricemia. Results The mean ELIR and IR surrogates (TyG, TyG-BMI, TG/ HDL, and METS-IR) were significantly higher in subjects with hyperuricemia compared to non-hyperuricemic subjects (p &lt; 0.001). After adjusting for confounding variables, the association between hyperuricemia and EDIR was not significant, but ELIR had a significant association in all models (p &lt; 0.001). All four IR surrogates (TyG, TyG-BMI, TG/ HDL, and METS-IR) showed a significant association with hyperuricemia (p &lt; 0.001). Conclusion There was a significant association between indexes of insulin resistance: TyG, TyG-BMI, TG/HDL-c, METS-IR, and ELIR with hyperuricemia, in a population sample from northeastern Iran.
Abstract Background Previous studies on the distribution of mycetoma globally have failed to identify Ecuador as an endemic country. Methods We present data on 35 cases of mycetoma in Ecuador between 1955 and 2021: 5 cases from our experience and 30 cases from the literature. Results Eight cases of eumycetoma (23%) and 27 cases of actinomycetoma (77%) were diagnosed. Most cases originated from the coastal region of Ecuador. Conclusions For the first time in an English-language publication, this communication confirms the presence of mycetoma in Ecuador, securing Ecuador's position on the global mycetoma map.
Abstract Background Primary care data in the UK are widely used for cancer research, but the reliability of recording key events such as diagnoses remains uncertain. Data linkage can mitigate these uncertainties; however, researchers may avoid linkage due to high costs, tight timelines, and sample size limitations. Hence, this study aimed to assess the quality of prostate cancer (PCa) diagnoses in primary care. We utilised Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) primary care data linked to National Cancer Registration and Analysis Service (NCRAS) and Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) in England. We compared accuracy, completeness, and timing of diagnosis recording between sources to facilitate decision-making regarding data source selection for future research. Methods Incident PCa diagnoses (2000-2016) for males aged ≥46 years recorded in at least one study data source were examined. The accuracy of a data source was estimated by the proportion of diagnoses recorded in the specific source that was also confirmed by any linked source. Completeness was estimated by identifying the proportion of all diagnoses in linked sources with a matching diagnosis in the specific source. Results The study included 51,487 PCa patients from either source. CPRD demonstrated 86.9% accuracy and 68.2% completeness against NCRAS and 75.1% accuracy and 61.1% completeness against HES. Overall, CPRD showed the highest accuracy (93%) but the lowest completeness (60.7%). Diagnosis dates in CPRD were more concordant with NCRAS (90.6% within 6 months) than with HES (61.2%). Over time, accuracy and completeness improved, especially after 2004. Discrepancies in diagnosis dates revealed a median delay of 2 weeks in CPRD than NCRAS and 1 week than HES. CPRD Aurum exhibited better quality compared to GOLD. Conclusions While the accuracy of PCa diagnoses in CPRD compared to linked sources was high, completeness was low. Therefore, linking to HES or NCRAS should be considered for improved case capture, acknowledging their inherent limitations.
Abstract Background Procalcitonin (PCT) is a blood marker used to help diagnose bacterial infections and guide antibiotic treatment. PCT testing was widely used/adopted during the COVID-19 pandemic in the UK. Objectives Primary: to measure the difference in length of early (during first 7 days) antibiotic prescribing between patients with COVID-19 who did/did not have baseline PCT testing during the first wave of the pandemic. Secondary: to measure differences in length of hospital/ICU stay, mortality, total days of antibiotic prescribing and resistant bacterial infections between these groups. Methods Multi-centre, retrospective, observational, cohort study using patient-level clinical data from acute hospital Trusts/Health Boards in England/Wales. Inclusion: patients ≥16 years, admitted to participating Trusts/Health Boards and with a confirmed positive COVID-19 test between 1 February 2020 and 30 June 2020. Results Data from 5960 patients were analysed: 1548 (26.0%) had a baseline PCT test and 4412 (74.0%) did not. Using propensity-score matching, baseline PCT testing was associated with an average reduction in early antibiotic prescribing of 0.43 days [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.22–0.64 days, P &amp;lt; 0.001) and of 0.72 days (95% CI: 0.06–1.38 days, P = 0.03] in total antibiotic prescribing. Baseline PCT testing was not associated with increased mortality or hospital/ICU length of stay or with the rate of antimicrobial-resistant secondary bacterial infections. Conclusions Baseline PCT testing appears to have been an effective antimicrobial stewardship tool early in the pandemic: it reduced antibiotic prescribing without evidence of harm. Our study highlights the need for embedded, rapid evaluations of infection diagnostics in the National Health Service so that even in challenging circumstances, introduction into clinical practice is supported by evidence for clinical utility. Study registration number ISRCTN66682918.
Abstract Background Radium‐223 and taxane chemotherapy each improve survival of patients with metastatic castration‐resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). Whether the radium‐223–taxane sequence could extend survival without cumulative toxicity was explored. Methods The global, prospective, observational REASSURE study (NCT02141438) assessed real‐world safety and effectiveness of radium‐223 in patients with mCRPC. Using data from the prespecified second interim analysis (data cutoff, March 20, 2019), hematologic events and overall survival (OS) were evaluated in patients who were chemotherapy‐naive at radium‐223 initiation and subsequently received taxane chemotherapy starting ≤90 days (“immediate”) or &gt;90 days (“delayed”) after the last radium‐223 dose. Results Following radium‐223 therapy, 182 patients received docetaxel (172 [95%]) and/or cabazitaxel (44 [24%]); 34 patients (19%) received both. Seventy‐three patients (40%) received immediate chemotherapy and 109 patients (60%) received delayed chemotherapy. Median time from last radium‐223 dose to first taxane cycle was 3.6 months (range, 0.3–28.4). Median duration of first taxane was 3.7 months (range, 0–22.0). Fourteen patients (10 in the immediate and four in the delayed subgroup) had grade 3/4 hematologic events during taxane chemotherapy, including neutropenia in two patients in the delayed subgroup and thrombocytopenia in one patient in each subgroup. Median OS was 24.3 months from radium‐223 initiation and 11.8 months from start of taxane therapy. Conclusions In real‐world clinical practice settings, a heterogeneous population of patients who received sequential radium‐223–taxane therapy had a low incidence of hematologic events, with a median survival of 1 year from taxane initiation. Thus, taxane chemotherapy is a feasible option for those who progress after radium‐223. Clinical Trial Registration ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT02141438. Plain Language Summary Radium‐223 and chemotherapy are treatment options for metastatic prostate cancer, which increase survival but may affect production of blood cells as a side effect. We wanted to know what would happen if patients received chemotherapy after radium‐223. Among the 182 men treated with radium‐223 who went on to receive chemotherapy, only two men had severe side effects affecting white blood cell production (neutropenia) during chemotherapy. On average, the 182 men lived for 2 years after starting radium‐223 and 1 year after starting chemotherapy. In conclusion, patients may benefit from chemotherapy after radium‐223 treatment without increasing the risk of side effects.
Abstract Background Seed amplification assay (SAA) testing has become an important biomarker in the diagnosis of alpha-synuclein related neurodegenerative disorders. Objectives To assess the rate of alpha-synuclein SAA positivity in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and corticobasal syndrome (CBS), and analyse the clinical and pathological features of SAA positive and negative cases. Methods 106 CSF samples from clinically diagnosed PSP (n=59), CBS (n=37) and indeterminate parkinsonism cases (n=10) were analysed using alpha-synuclein SAA. Results Three cases (1 PSP, 2 CBS) were Multiple System Atrophy (MSA)-type SAA positive. 5/59 (8.5%) PSP cases were Parkinson’s disease (PD)-type SAA positive, and these cases were older and had a shorter disease duration compared with SAA negative cases. In contrast, 9/35 (25.7%) CBS cases were PD-type SAA positive. Conclusions Our results suggest that PD-type seeds can be detected in PSP and CBS using a CSF alpha-synuclein SAA, and in PSP this may impact on clinical course.
Abstract Background Sepsis is a life-threatening condition which may arise from infection in any organ system and requires early recognition and management. Healthcare professionals working in any specialty may need to manage patients with sepsis. Educating medical students about this condition may be an effective way to ensure all future doctors have sufficient ability to diagnose and treat septic patients. However, there is currently no consensus on what competencies medical students should achieve regarding sepsis recognition and treatment. This study aims to outline what sepsis-related competencies medical students should achieve by the end of their medical student training in both high or upper-middle incomes countries/regions and in low or lower-middle income countries/regions. Methods Two separate panels from high or upper-middle income and low or lower-middle income countries/regions participated in a Delphi method to suggest and rank sepsis competencies for medical students. Each panel consisted of 13–18 key stakeholders of medical education and doctors in specialties where sepsis is a common problem (both specialists and trainees). Panelists came from all continents, except Antarctica. Results The panels reached consensus on 38 essential sepsis competencies in low or lower-middle income countries/regions and 33 in high or upper-middle incomes countries/regions. These include competencies such as definition of sepsis and septic shock and urgency of antibiotic treatment. In the low or lower-middle income countries/regions group, consensus was also achieved for competencies ranked as very important, and was achieved in 4/5 competencies rated as moderately important. In the high or upper-middle incomes countries/regions group, consensus was achieved in 41/57 competencies rated as very important but only 6/11 competencies rated as moderately important. Conclusion Medical schools should consider developing curricula to address essential competencies, as a minimum, but also consider addressing competencies rated as very or moderately important.
Abstract Background Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) such as syphilis and HIV remain to be a significant public health issue worldwide. Dual rapid point-of-care tests (POCTs) have shown promise for detecting antibodies to HIV and syphilis but have not been fully evaluated in the field. Our study supported the WHO ProSPeRo study on Sexually Transmitted Infection Point-of-Care Testing (STI POCT) by providing external quality assessment (EQA) for HIV and syphilis testing in reference laboratories and their associated clinical sites in seven countries. Methods HIV/syphilis serum liquid and dried tube specimen (DTS) panels were prepared by CDC. Liquid panels were distributed to the reference laboratories for three rounds of testing using commercially and locally available laboratory-based serological tests. DTS panels were sent to the clinical testing sites for 8 rounds of POC testing using the Abbott SD BIOLINE HIV/Syphilis Duo test (hereafter referred to as SD BIOLINE) and the Chembio Dual Path Platform (DPP) HIV-Syphilis assay. EQA panels were tested at CDC using the Rapid Plasma Reagin (RPR) test and the Treponema pallidum Particle Agglutination assay (TP-PA) for syphilis antibodies. Genetic Systems HIV-1/HIV-2 Plus O EIA, Geenius HIV Supplemental Assay and the Oraquick Advance HIV test were used to detect HIV antibodies in the EQA panels. Results from the reference laboratories and POCT sites were compared to those obtained at the CDC and a percentage agreement was calculated. Results Qualitative RPR and TP-PA performed at the reference laboratories demonstrated 95.4–100% agreement with CDC results while quantitative RPR and TP-PA tests demonstrated 87.7% and 89.2% agreement, respectively. A 93.8% concordance rate was observed for qualitative HIV testing in laboratories. EQA testing at clinical sites using dual tests showed 98.7% and 99.1% agreement for detection of HIV antibodies and eight out of 10 sites had &gt; 95.8% agreement for syphilis testing. However, two clinical sites showed only 65.0–66.7% agreement for SD BIOLINE and 84.0–86.7% for DPP, respectively, for syphilis testing. Conclusions Overall, laboratories demonstrated high EQA performance in this study. Both HIV/syphilis POCTs gave expected results in the clinic-based evaluations using DTS. However, testing errors were identified in a few testing sites suggesting the necessity for continuous training and monitoring the quality of POC testing.
Abstract Background Sleep is often compromised in athletes. The monitoring of athlete’s sleep is an important preventative and educational tool. With many athletes using daily questionnaires to estimate sleep quality, there is a need to understand what this term is indicating when self-reported, and thus whether a self-report of this factor is useful. Aims This study aimed to compare self-reported and actigraph reported sleep quality, with a view to further understanding the constructs of this parameter. Methods Twenty-two national level female footballers provided a daily self-report of sleep quality (Likert scale) across 7 days, whilst also wearing an actigraph across the same testing period. Linear regression analysis was carried out to see which actigraph derived factors contributed to self-report score. Results The incorporation of SE, number of wakings and SFI could only account for 27.5% of variance in self-reported sleep quality scores. Number of wakings was the only significant predictor for self-reported sleep quality score (p = 0.000). Conclusions When asking for self-report of sleep quality, coaches should infer that number of wakings may be predicting for the Likert score given. Further discussion around this is advised, given the multifactorial nature of sleep quality and the potential for many contributing factors to affect scoring.
Abstract Background Stigma related to lower-limb lymphoedema poses a major psychosocial burden to affected persons and acts as a barrier to them accessing morbidity management and disability prevention (MMDP) services. Community Conversation (CC), which actively engages community members and disseminates health information amongst them, is believed to break the vicious cycle of stigma by enhancing disease-related health literacy at the community level. Methods A quasi-experimental study was conducted in Northern Ethiopia to assess the role of the CC intervention in reducing stigma. In two control districts, a comprehensive and holistic MMDP care package was implemented that included physical health, mental health and psychosocial interventions, whilst in the intervention district the CC intervention was added to the MMDP care package. A total of 289 persons affected by lymphoedema and 1659 community members without lymphoedema were included in the study. Results Over the course of the intervention, in all sites, community members’ knowledge about the causes of lymphoedema increased, and perceived social distance and stigmatizing attitudes towards people with lymphoedema decreased in the community, whilst experienced and internalized stigma decreased amongst affected persons. There were no significant changes for perceived social support. However, the changes were greater in the control sites overall, i.e. those districts in which the holistic care package was implemented without CC. Conclusion The findings suggest that the CC intervention provides no additional stigma reduction when used alongside a holistic MMDP care package. Provision of comprehensive and holistic MMDP services may be adequate and appropriate to tackle stigma related to lower-limb lymphoedema in a resource-constrained setting like Ethiopia.
Abstract Background The aim of this study was to determine the association between dietary mineral intake and Coronavirus-disease 2019 (COVID-19) infection and its associated hospitalization. Methods This cohort study utilized the MASHAD study population, which comprised individuals aged 35–65. Upon recruitment in 2007, dietary intake was documented using a validated 65-item food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). Data on COVID-19 PCR test results was collected from all relevant medical centers in Mashhad between February 2020 and June 2022. The regression model included dietary minerals and employed the backward variable selection method, along with advanced data analysis techniques. Results The final analysis involved 1957 participants, including 193 COVID-19-positive patients. The mean age was 49.71 and 50.28 years in the COVID-19-positive and negative groups, respectively ( p = 0.12). Dietary intakes of magnesium, iron, and potassium were notably lower in COVID-19-positive patients ( P &lt; 0.05). Following adjustments for age and sex, dietary iron remained significantly associated with COVID-19 incidence (OR = 0.94, 95% CI: 0.90–0.98). Furthermore, a statistically significant relationship was observed between dietary zinc and hospitalization due to COVID-19 (OR = 0.69, 95% CI: 0.51–0.93). In dynamical system models, intakes of calcium, zinc, and iron below the cut-offs of 1138, 9.7, and 8.17 mg/day, respectively, were linked to an increased risk of COVID-19 incidence. Conclusion Higher dietary iron and zinc intake are associated with decreased risk of COVID-19 infection and hospitalization, respectively.
Abstract Background The aim was to establish a 10-year dyslipidemia incidence model, investigating novel anthropometric indices using exploratory regression and data mining. Methods This data mining study was conducted on people who were diagnosed with dyslipidemia in phase 2 ( n = 1097) of the Mashhad Stroke and Heart Atherosclerotic Disorder (MASHAD) study, who were compared with healthy people in this phase ( n = 679). The association of dyslipidemia with several novel anthropometric indices including Conicity Index (C-Index), Body Roundness Index (BRI), Visceral Adiposity Index (VAI), Lipid Accumulation Product (LAP), Abdominal Volume Index (AVI), Weight-Adjusted-Waist Index (WWI), A Body Shape Index (ABSI), Body Mass Index (BMI), Body Adiposity Index (BAI) and Body Surface Area (BSA) was evaluated. Logistic Regression (LR) and Decision Tree (DT) analysis were utilized to evaluate the association. The accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of DT were assessed through the performance of a Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve using R software. Results A total of 1776 subjects without dyslipidemia during phase 1 were followed up in phase 2 and enrolled into the current study. The AUC of models A and B were 0.69 and 0.63 among subjects with dyslipidemia, respectively. VAI has been identified as a significant predictor of dyslipidemias (OR: 2.81, (95% CI: 2.07, 3.81)) in all models. Moreover, the DT showed that VAI followed by BMI and LAP were the most critical variables in predicting dyslipidemia incidence. Conclusions Based on the results, model A had an acceptable performance for predicting 10 years of dyslipidemia incidence. Furthermore, the VAI, BMI, and LAP were the principal anthropometric factors for predicting dyslipidemia incidence by LR and DT models.
Abstract Background The Episodic Disability Questionnaire (EDQ) is a generic 35-item patient-reported outcome measure of presence, severity and episodic nature of disability. We assessed the measurement properties of the Episodic Disability Questionnaire (EDQ) with adults living with HIV. Methods We conducted a measurement study with adults living with HIV in eight clinical settings in Canada, Ireland, United Kingdom, and United States. We electronically administered the EDQ followed by three reference measures (World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule; Patient Health Questionnaire; Social Support Scale) and a demographic questionnaire. We administered the EDQ only 1 week later. We assessed the internal consistency reliability (Cronbach’s alpha; &gt; 0.7 acceptable), and test–retest reliability (Intra Class Correlation Coefficient; &gt; 0.7 acceptable). We estimated required change in EDQ domain scores to be 95% certain that a change was not due to measurement error (Minimum Detectable Change (MDC95%)). We evaluated construct validity by assessing 36 primary hypotheses of relationships between EDQ scores and scores on the reference measures (&gt; 75% hypotheses confirmed indicated validity). Results Three hundred fifty nine participants completed the questionnaires at time point 1, of which 321 (89%) completed the EDQ approximately 1 week later. Cronbach’s alpha for internal consistency ranged from 0.84 (social domain) to 0.91 (day domain) for the EDQ severity scale, and 0.72 (uncertainty domain) to 0.88 (day domain) for the EDQ presence scale, and 0.87 (physical, cognitive, mental-emotional domains) to 0.89 (uncertainty domain) for the EDQ episodic scale. ICCs for test–retest reliability ranged from 0.79 (physical domain) to 0.88 (day domain) for the EDQ severity scale and from 0.71 (uncertainty domain) to 0.85 (day domain) for the EDQ presence scale. Highest precision was demonstrated in the severity scale for each domain (MDC95% range: 19–25 out of 100), followed by the presence (MDC95% range: 37–54) and episodic scales (MDC95% range:44–76). Twenty-nine of 36 (81%) construct validity hypotheses were confirmed. Conclusions The EDQ possesses internal consistency reliability, construct validity, and test–retest reliability, with limited precision when administered electronically with adults living with HIV across in clinical settings in four countries. Given the measurement properties, the EDQ can be used for group level comparisons for research and program evaluation in adults living with HIV.
Abstract Background The prevalence of obesity and the diversity of available treatments makes the development of a national obesity registry desirable. To do this, it is essential to design a minimal dataset to meet the needs of a registry. This review aims to identify the essential elements of a successful obesity registry. Methods We conducted a systematic literature review adhering to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis recommendations. Google Scholar, Scopus and PubMed databases and Google sites were searched to identify articles containing obesity or overweight registries or datasets of obesity. We included English articles up to January 2023. Results A total of 82 articles were identified. Data collection of all registries was carried out via a web-based system. According to the included datasets, the important features were as follows: demographics, anthropometrics, medical history, lifestyle assessment, nutritional assessment, weight history, clinical information, medication history, family medical history, prenatal history, quality-of-life assessment and eating disorders. Conclusions In this study, the essential features in the obesity registry dataset were demographics, anthropometrics, medical history, lifestyle assessment, nutritional assessment, weight history and clinical analysis items.
Abstract Background Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) has become a major health concern with an increasing prevalence and is now one of the leading attributable causes of death globally. T2DM and cardiovascular disease are strongly associated and T2DM is an important independent risk factor for ischemic heart disease. T-wave abnormalities (TWA) on electrocardiogram (ECG) can indicate several pathologies including ischemia. In this study, we aimed to investigate the association between T2DM and T-wave changes using the Minnesota coding system. Methods A cross-sectional study was conducted on the MASHAD cohort study population. All participants of the cohort population were enrolled in the study. 12-lead ECG and Minnesota coding system (codes 5–1 to 5–4) were utilized for T-wave observation and interpretation. Regression models were used for the final evaluation with a level of significance being considered at p &lt; 0.05. Results A total of 9035 participants aged 35–65 years old were included in the study, of whom 1273 were diabetic. The prevalence of code 5–2, 5–3, major and minor TWA were significantly higher in diabetics ( p &lt; 0.05). However, following adjustment for age, gender, and hypertension, the presence of TWAs was not significantly associated with T2DM ( p &gt; 0.05). Hypertension, age, and body mass index were significantly associated with T2DM ( p &lt; 0.05). Conclusions Although some T-wave abnormalities were more frequent in diabetics, they were not statistically associated with the presence of T2DM in our study.
Abstract Background/Aims Hypermobile conditions, including Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and joint hypermobility syndrome, encompass a broad spectrum of heterogenous clinical entities characterised by excessive range of joint movements and variable extra-articular features. The etiological basis of these conditions is thought to relate to abnormal collagen assembly, which impairs the structural integrity of connective tissue, although precise mechanisms remain both debated and incompletely understood. Despite the established strong heritability of hypermobility, a definitive genetic cause remains unidentifiable in most hypermobile patients, highlighting the need to further characterize the genetic landscape of hypermobile conditions. In this study, we therefore employ transcriptomic analysis as an alternate means of elucidating the genetic basis of hypermobility. Methods We tested for the effects of hypermobility on gene expression, at baseline and following an inflammatory challenge, by re-analysing existing transcriptomic data gathered from healthy subjects and patients with fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue using total RNA sequencing of blood samples (Illumina NextSeq 500). From each participant, two blood samples were taken on separate occasions: one after a saline injection and the other after an inflammatory challenge, the typhoid vaccination, in a cross-over design. Participants were assigned to hypermobile or non-hypermobile conditions in accordance with criterion 1: generalized joint hypermobility of the Diagnostic Criteria for Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (hEDS) produced by the International Consortium on Ehlers-Danlos Syndromes &amp; Related disorders. Differential gene expression analysis comparing hypermobile and non-hypermobile participants was performed using EdgeR software in R studio. Baseline differences were determined by comparing post-saline samples between groups. Differential responses to the inflammatory challenge were detected by comparison of post-typhoid samples between groups. Gene ontology on differentially expressed genes was performed using DAVID’s Functional Annotation Clustering tool. Results We found 288 differentially expressed genes post-saline (i.e at baseline) and 1113 post-typhoid at p &amp;lt; 0.05 although none passed false discovery rate. At baseline, differentially expressed genes were significantly enriched for nuclear, endoplasmic reticulum, and microtubular genes (enrichment score = 2.96, 2.02, 1.3 respectively); and post-typhoid, for 24 clusters, the three most significant being synaptic, ion transport, and plasma membrane genes (enrichment score = 11.34, 8.71, and 7.3 respectively). Conclusion These data demonstrate distinct patterns of gene expression, both at baseline and during inflammation, which implicate potential biological pathways in the pathophysiology of hypermobility. These results also contribute to a growing understanding of the genetic basis of hypermobility and may inform future higher-powered studies to validate our findings. Disclosure J. Porter: None. M. Amato: None. K. Themelis: None. H. Critchley: None. S. Newbury: None. K. Davies: None. N. Harrison: None. B. Towler: None. J. Eccles: Grants/research support; J.E. has received funding from Versus Arthritis, National Institute for Health Research and the Fibroduck Foundation.
Abstract Background: Previous evidence has demonstrated greater sleep to enhance sprint, endurance, and sports-specific skills, however, it is yet to be investigated whether improved sleep indices could enhance strength and power performance. Sleep hygiene (SH) is growing in popularity as a tool to enhance sleep indices amongst athletic cohorts, yet the optimal delivery strategy of sleep hygiene education is yet to be determined. Aims: The aims of this study were to investigate whether sleep hygiene interventions affect strength and power outcomes, with a secondary aim to assess whether there are any differences between individualised and group-based SH education on sleep indices in female athletes. Methods: Using a randomised, controlled design with repeated measures, 34 female footballers were split into 3 groups: one receiving both group-based and individualised sleep hygiene, one receiving only group-based SH and a control group receiving no education. Monitoring of sleep and physical performance was carried out at week 1, 4 and 7. Split-plot ANOVAs assessed for differences between groups x weeks, and groups x time. Results: Individualised sleep hygiene education resulted in significantly improved sleep duration (p =0.005), latency (p=0.006) and efficiency (p=0.004) at week 7 compared to controls, whilst also resulting in significantly improved countermovement jump scores (p=0.001) compared to control. Conclusions : Participants receiving group-based sleep hygiene education only, demonstrated significantly improved sleep efficiency compared to controls (p=0.032). Jump performance may be affected by sleep factors, and individualised SH may be superior to group-based SH. This provides information to coaches regarding training optimisation and the efficacy of SH education methods.
Abstract Backgrounds Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is an unpleasant condition that affects the quality of life of patients. Its prevalence in increased in women with premenstrual syndrome (PMS). Vitamin D plays a key role in female reproduction through its impact on calcium homeostasis and neurotransmitters. We aimed to evaluate the effect of dairy products fortified with Vitamin D 3 on RLS in women with PMS. Materials and methods We conducted a 2.5-month, randomized, total-blinded clinical trial to evaluate the effectiveness of low-fat milk and yogurt fortified with vitamin D on RLS in women with PMS. Among 141 middle-aged women with abdominal obesity, 71 and 70 cases received fortified and non-fortified low-fat dairy products, respectively. All subjects completed a Symptoms Screening Tool (PSST) and RLS questionnaires. Results The results showed that in the women with severe PMS (PSST &gt; 28), serum levels of vitamin D increased significantly following vitamin D fortification. The mean restless legs score in the severe PMS subgroup (PSST &gt; 28) was significantly lower after the intervention ( p &lt; 0.05. Serum Vitamin D levels significantly differed between intervention and control groups in all individuals (PSST &lt; 19, PSST 19–28, and PSST &gt; 28) ( p &lt; 0.05), but no significant differences were found between RLS scores of the intervention and control groups in the three PMS subgroups ( p &gt; 0.05). Conclusion Fortifying dairy products with vitamin D 3 can increase the serum levels of vitamin D and reduce the RLS severity in women with severe PMS, but not in other groups.
Abstract CAFs (cancer-associated fibroblasts) are highly flexible cells of the cancer microenvironment. They produce the extracellular matrix (ECM) constituents that form the structure of the tumor stroma but are also a source of metabolites, growth factors, chemokines, and exosomes that impact every aspect of the tumor, including its response to treatment. It is believed that exosomal miRNAs facilitate intercellular signaling, which is essential for the development of cancer. The role of miRNAs and CAFs in the tumor microenvironment (TME) and carcinogenesis is reviewed in this paper. The preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses (PRISMA) 2020 guidelines were used to perform a systematic review. Several databases, including Web of Science, Medline, Embase, Cochrane Library, and Scopus, were searched using the following keywords: CAFs, CAF, cancer-associated fibroblasts, stromal fibroblasts, miRNA, exosomal miRNAs, exosome and similar terms. We identified studies investigating exosomal miRNAs and CAFs in the TME and their role in carcinogenesis. A total of 12,572 papers were identified. After removing duplicates ( n = 3803), 8774 articles were screened by title and abstract. Of these, 421 were excluded from further analysis. It has been reported that if exosomal miRNAs in CAFs are not functioning correctly, this may influence the secretory phenotype of tip cells and contribute to increased tumor invasiveness, tumor spread, decreased treatment efficacy, and a poorer prognosis. Under their influence, normal fibroblasts (NFs) are transformed into CAFs. Furthermore, they participate in metabolic reprogramming, which allows for fast proliferation of the cancer cell population, adaptation to growing energy demands, and the capacity to avoid immune system identification.
Abstract Cardiovascular disease (CVD) can be determined and quantified using the electrocardiogram (ECG) analysis. Identification of the risk factors associated with ECG abnormalities may advise prevention approaches to decrease CVD burden. In this study we aimed to investigate the association between CVD risk factors and minor and major ECG abnormalities in a general Iranian adult population. This study was conducted in 2010 and covered a population of 9035 males and females aged 35 to 65 years recruiting from the phase I of Mashhad Stroke and Heart Atherosclerotic Disorder (MASHAD) cohort study. The participants were drawn by a stratified cluster random sampling technique. The Bivariate and multinomial logistic regression analysis were conducted considering gender stratification to explore the association of ECG abnormalities with traditional cardiovascular risk factors. There was a significant association between minor and major ECG abnormalities and hypertension (HTN), type 2 diabetes (T2DM), smoking, and physical activity ( p &lt; 0.005). There was a significant trend, in both genders, for increasing major abnormalities as the number of CVD risk factors increased. But, only in women, the minor abnormalities increase in frequency as the number of CVD risk factors increased. The results of multinomial logistic regression showed that men with HTN [ARRR = 1.25, 95% CI 0.99, 1.57] and T2DM [ARRR = 1.31, 95% CI 0.99, 1.74] had the highest likelihood to have major abnormalities, although these are not statistically significant. For women, those with HTN had the highest likelihood to have major [ARRR = 1.36, 95% CI 1.13, 1.63] and minor [ARRR = 1.35, 95% CI 1.15, 1.58] abnormalities. Also, women aged &gt; 60 years were more likely to have major [ARRR = 2.01, 95% CI 1.49, 2.74] and minor [ARRR = 1.59, 95% CI 1.20, 2.10] abnormalities compared to women aged &lt; 45 years. Age and HTN were significantly associated with major and minor ECG abnormalities in women, and, on the other hand, HTN and T2DM were associated with major abnormalities in men. Taken together, these findings suggest that healthcare providers should advise preventive approaches to the asymptomatic adults with both major and minor electrocardiographic abnormalities that may predict cardiovascular risk.
Abstract Citizen science, also known as participatory or community science, involves the participation of non-professionally trained individuals in scientific research. This article, part of a series of articles aiming to map and theorise the postdigital dimensions of citizen science, presents diverse narratives from individuals actively engaged in citizen science endeavors. The authors were invited to share their experiences, motivations, challenges, and opportunities in their own words. Their perspectives are organized into three categories: (1) citizen science as a mediator between professional and amateur science, (2) citizen science for diverse publics and community action, and (3) citizen science from the margins. These narratives illuminate citizen science as not just a theoretical construct, but a dynamic methodological prism, revealing the complex entanglement of the postdigital realm and citizen science through innovative sociotechnical methods and approaches. Each contribution highlights the rich possibilities and challenges arising from the intertwining of community researchers and technology in the pursuit of knowledge, meaning, and action. This tapestry of experiences invites further exploration of the evolving landscape of postdigital citizen science.
ABSTRACT Cognitive behaviour therapy for psychosis (CBTp) should be offered to patients receiving psychiatric inpatient care, yet very little is known about patients' perspectives on this. The aim of this study was to examine patients' experiences of a CBTp‐informed intervention delivered in inpatient settings. We recruited 10 participants from the intervention arm of a randomised controlled trial examining the feasibility and acceptability of a CBTp‐informed intervention for psychiatric inpatient settings. We undertook semistructured interviews examining their experiences of the intervention and analysed them using thematic analysis. The study was conducted in partnership with a coproduction group of key stakeholders (people with lived experience, family and carers, and clinicians). The intervention was found helpful by almost all participants, and all participants would recommend it to others in similar situations to themselves. The results demonstrated that participants valued the therapist's professionalism and emphasised the importance of the therapeutic relationship. Participants highlighted the importance of the therapy focusing on navigating admission and developing skills to manage the crisis experience so they could return to their normal lives. Participants described challenges to having psychological therapy in the acute crisis context including therapy interruptions and ongoing distressing experiences of psychosis. The study demonstrated the importance of prioritising the therapeutic relationship, that therapy was a valued process to navigate admission and discharge, but that some environmental and patient‐level challenges were present. Further research is needed to explore inpatients' experiences of psychological interventions in this setting. Trial Registration ISRCTN trial registry: ISRCTN59055607
Abstract DEPLOY! Project aims at analysing the behaviour of Deployable Pulsating Heat Pipe (PHP) shaped as a helicoidal torsional spring in the adiabatic section on board a Parabolic Flight platform. A PHP is a passive thermal control device where the heat is efficiently transported by means of the self-sustained oscillatory fluid motion driven by the phase change phenomena. The microgravity environment allows to eliminate the buoyancy force contribution in the liquid phase momentum. Consequently, it is possible to isolate the contribution of the pressure drop caused by the 3D arrangement and infer on their effect on the PHP performance. As a result, a proper design based on the previous considerations would increase the flexibility of the PHP for use in space applications without significant reductions in efficiency. The goal of DEPLOY! is to demonstrate the functionality of a Deployable Pulsating Heat Pipe in various unfolding configurations by analysing its thermal-hydraulic response throughout a Parabolic Flight. The presented Deployable PHP is composed of an aluminium tube (inner/outer diameters 1.6mm/2.6 mm) and filled with HFE-7000. It is heated at the evaporator using a flat heater and cooled at the condenser with a water-cooled cold plate. T-type thermocouples are used to measure the wall temperature in several locations, while two pressure transducers (one located in the evaporator section and another in the condenser section of the same pipe) measure the local fluid pressure. Additionally, an IR Camera will be used to observe a section of the pipe for further analysis of the flow frequency. The device operation will be tested on ground and 0-g at different heat loads (24W, 34W), in multiple static positions corresponding to different opening angles (0°, 45°, 90°, 135°, 180°) and during its dynamic opening from 0° to 180°, thanks to a remotely controllable motion system.
Abstract Exudate and its viscosity are critical in wound healing. Changes in viscosity can interfere with dressings properties as well as affect the diffusion of immune cells, nutrients, oxygen and bacteria. Current international standards for laboratory testing of wound dressings use a single low‐viscosity solution, named as ‘Test Solution A’, which fails to simulate the diverse range of exudates encountered clinically. This study employs rheological analysis to characterise exudates viscosity, comparing cattle‐derived samples to the test solution A. Results reveal non‐Newtonian, shear‐thinning behaviour in exudates, contrasting with the Newtonian behaviour of the test solution A. Although clinically classified as ‘seropurulent’, three exudate samples analysed at 37°C present with different viscosity at various shear rates, ranging from 30.8 (±14.7) to 6.5 (±1.9) mPas. Findings show that the current tests on dressings employing Test Solution A are missing the complexity of real exudates.
ABSTRACT From early in the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID‐19) pandemic, there was interest in using machine learning methods to predict COVID‐19 infection status based on vocal audio signals, for example, cough recordings. However, early studies had limitations in terms of data collection and of how the performances of the proposed predictive models were assessed. This article describes how these limitations have been overcome in a study carried out by the Turing‐RSS Health Data Laboratory and the UK Health Security Agency. As part of the study, the UK Health Security Agency collected a dataset of acoustic recordings, SARS‐CoV‐2 infection status and extensive study participant meta‐data. This allowed us to rigorously assess state‐of‐the‐art machine learning techniques to predict SARS‐CoV‐2 infection status based on vocal audio signals. The lessons learned from this project should inform future studies on statistical evaluation methods to assess the performance of machine learning techniques for public health tasks.
Abstract Genetic heterogeneity and co-occurring driver mutations impact clinical outcomes in blood cancers, but predicting the emergent effect of co-occurring mutations that impact multiple complex and interacting signalling networks is challenging. Here, we used mathematical models to predict the impact of co-occurring mutations on cellular signalling and cell fates in diffuse large B cell lymphoma and multiple myeloma. Simulations predicted adverse impact on clinical prognosis when combinations of mutations induced both anti-apoptotic (AA) and pro-proliferative (PP) signalling. We integrated patient-specific mutational profiles into personalised lymphoma models, and identified patients characterised by simultaneous upregulation of anti-apoptotic and pro-proliferative (AAPP) signalling in all genomic and cell-of-origin classifications (8-25% of patients). In a discovery cohort and two validation cohorts, patients with upregulation of neither, one (AA or PP), or both (AAPP) signalling states had good, intermediate and poor prognosis respectively. Combining AAPP signalling with genetic or clinical prognostic predictors reliably stratified patients into striking prognostic categories. AAPP patients in poor prognosis genetic clusters had 7.8 months median overall survival, while patients lacking both features had 90% overall survival at 120 months in a validation cohort. Personalised computational models enable identification of novel risk-stratified patient subgroups, providing a valuable tool for future risk-adapted clinical trials.
Abstract High ventilation breathwork with retention (HVBR) has been growing in popularity over the past decade and might be beneficial for mental and physical health. However, little research has explored the potential therapeutic effects of brief, remotely delivered HVBR and the tolerability profile of this technique. Accordingly, we investigated the effects of a fully-automated HVBR protocol, along with its tolerability, when delivered remotely in a brief format. This study (NCT06064474) was the largest blinded randomised-controlled trial on HVBR to date in which 200 young, healthy adults balanced for gender were randomly allocated in blocks of 2 by remote software to 3 weeks of 20 min daily HVBR (fast breathing with long breath holds) or a placebo HVBR comparator (15 breaths/min with short breath holds). The trial was concealed as a ‘fast breathwork’ study wherein both intervention and comparator were masked, and only ~ 40% guessed their group assignment with no difference in accuracy between groups. Both groups reported analogous credibility and expectancy of benefit, subjective adherence, positive sentiment, along with short- and long-term tolerability. At post-intervention (primary timepoint) for stress level (primary outcome), we found no significant group × time interaction, F (1,180) = 1.98, p = 0.16, η p 2 = 0.01, d = 0.21), nor main effect of group, ( F = 0.35, p = 0.55, η p 2 &lt; 0.01) but we did find a significant main effect of time, ( F = 13.0, p &lt; 0.01, η p 2 = 0.07). There was a significant improvement in stress pre-post-intervention in both groups, however there was no significant difference in such improvement between groups. In addition to stress at follow-up, we found no significant group x time interactions for secondary trait outcomes of anxiety, depression, mental wellbeing, and sleep-related impairment. This was also the case for state positive and negative affect after the first session of breathwork and at post-intervention. Brief remote HVBR therefore may not be more efficacious at improving mental health than a well-designed active comparator in otherwise healthy, young adults.
Abstract Improved sleep can enhance sprint, endurance, and sports-specific skills; however, it is yet to be investigated whether improved sleep indices could enhance strength and power performance. Sleep hygiene (SH) is growing in popularity as a tool to enhance sleep indices amongst athletic cohorts, yet the optimal delivery strategy of sleep hygiene education is yet to be determined. Using a randomised, controlled design with repeated measures, this study recruited 34 female footballers playing in WSL or WSL academy league. Participants were split into 3 groups: one receiving both group-based and individualised sleep hygiene education, one receiving only group-based SH education and a control group receiving no education. Monitoring of sleep (actigraphy, diaries) and physical performance (countermovement jump, isometric mid-thigh pull) was carried out at week 1, week 4 and week 7. Split-plot ANOVAs were used to assess for differences between groups × weeks, and groups × time. Individualised sleep hygiene education resulted in significantly improved sleep duration ( p = 0.005), latency ( p = 0.006) and efficiency ( p = 0.004) at week 7 compared to controls, whilst also resulting in significantly improved countermovement jump scores ( p = 0.001) compared to control. Results of this study suggest that jump performance may be affected by sleep factors, and that individualised SH may be superior to group-based SH, providing information to coaches regarding training optimisation and the efficacy of SH education methods.
Abstract In the UK, most adults with hypertension are managed in Primary Care. Referrals to Secondary Care Hypertension Specialists are targeted to patients in whom further investigations are likely to change management decisions. In this position statement the British and Irish Hypertension Society provide clinicians with a framework for referring patients to Hypertension Specialists. Additional therapeutic advice is provided to optimise patient management whilst awaiting specialist review. Our aim is to ensure that referral criteria to Hypertension Specialists are consistent across the UK and Ireland to ensure equitable access for all patients.
Abstract In this study we conducted the first investigation to assess the efficacy of a novel therapeutic antibody developed to target annexin-A1 (ANXA1). ANXA1 is an immunomodulatory protein which has been shown to be overexpressed in, and promote the development and progression of, several cancer types. In particular, high ANXA1 expression levels correlate with poorer overall survival in pancreatic and triple-negative breast cancers, two cancers with considerable unmet clinical need. MDX-124 is a humanised IgG1 monoclonal antibody which specifically binds to ANXA1 disrupting its interaction with formyl peptide receptors 1 and 2 (FPR1/2). Here we show that MDX-124 significantly reduced proliferation ( p &lt; 0.013) in a dose-dependent manner across a panel of human cancer cell lines expressing ANXA1. The anti-proliferative effect of MDX-124 is instigated by arresting cell cycle progression with cancer cells accumulating in the G 1 phase of the cell cycle. Furthermore, MDX-124 significantly inhibited tumour growth in both the 4T1-luc triple-negative breast and Pan02 pancreatic cancer syngeneic mouse models ( p &lt; 0.0001). These findings suggest ANXA1-targeted therapy is a viable and innovative approach to treat tumours which overexpress ANXA1.
Abstract International development work involves external partners bringing expertise, resources, and management for local interventions in LMICs, but there is often a gap in understandings of relevant local shared values. There is a widespread need to better design interventions which accommodate relevant elements of local culture, as emphasised by recent discussions in global health research regarding neo-colonialism. One recent innovation is the concept of producing ‘cultural protocols’ to precede and guide community engagement or intervention design, but without suggestions for generating them. This study explores and demonstrates the potential of an approach taken from another field, named WeValue InSitu , to generate local culturally-informed protocols. WeValue InSitu engages stakeholder groups in meaning-making processes which ‘crystallize’ their envelope of local shared values, making them communicable to outsiders. Our research context is understanding and reducing child stunting, including developing interventions, carried out at the Senegal and Indonesia sites of the UKRI GCRF Action Against Stunting Hub. Each national research team involves eight health disciplines from micro-nutrition to epigenetics, and extensive collection of samples and questionnaires. Local culturally-informed protocols would be generally valuable to pre-inform engagement and intervention designs. Here we explore generating them by immediately following the group WeValue InSitu crystallization process with specialised focus group discussions exploring: what local life practices potentially have significant influence on the environments affecting child stunting, and which cultural elements do they highlight as relevant. The discussions will be framed by the shared values, and reveal linkages to them. In this study, stakeholder groups like fathers, mothers, teachers, market traders, administrators, farmers and health workers were recruited, totalling 83 participants across 20 groups. Themes found relevant for a culturally-informed protocol for locally-acceptable food interventions included: specific gender roles; social hierarchies; health service access challenges; traditional beliefs around malnutrition; and attitudes to accepting outside help. The concept of a grounded culturally-informed protocol, and the use of WeValue InSitu to generate it, has thus been demonstrated here. Future work to scope out the advantages and limitations compared to deductive culture studies, and to using other formative research methods would now be useful.
Abstract Introduction Few studies have longitudinally mapped quality of life (QoL) trajectories of newly diagnosed people with dementia and their carers, particularly during coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19). Methods In a UK cohort study, 261 newly diagnosed people with dementia and 206 family carers were assessed prior to the pandemic (July 2019–March 2020), followed up after the first lockdown (July–October 2020) and then again a year and 2 years later. Latent growth curve modelling examined the level and change of QoL over the four time-points using dementia-specific QoL measures (DEMQOL and C-DEMQOL). Results Despite variations in individual change scores, our results suggest that generally people with dementia maintained their QoL during the pandemic and experienced some increase towards the end of the period. This contrasted with carers who reported a general deterioration in their QoL over the same period. ‘Confidence in future’ and ‘Feeling supported’ were the only carer QoL subscales to show some recovery post-pandemic. Discussion It is positive that even during a period of global disruption, decline in QoL is not inevitable following the onset of dementia. However, it is of concern that carer QoL declined during this same period even after COVID-19 restrictions had been lifted. Carers play an invaluable role in the lives of people with dementia and wider society, and our findings suggest that, post-pandemic, they may require greater support to maintain their QoL.
Abstract Introduction Globally, the incidence of HIV and syphilis can be reduced by the use of validated point of care tests (POCTs). As part of the WHO PRoSPeRo Network, we aimed to evaluate the performance, acceptability, and operational characteristics of two dual HIV/syphilis POCTs (Bioline HIV/Syphilis Duo (Abbott) and DPP® HIV-Syphilis assay (Chembio) for the screening of HIV and syphilis amongst men who have sex with men (MSM). Method and analyses A cross sectional study of 2,577 MSM in Italy, Malta, Peru, and the United Kingdom (UK) presenting to seven clinic sites, were enrolled. Finger prick blood was collected to perform POCTs and results compared with standard laboratory investigations on venepuncture blood. Acceptability and operational characteristics were assessed using questionnaires. Diagnostic meta-analysis was used to combine data from the evaluation sites. Results Based on laboratory tests, 23.46% ( n = 598/2549) of participants were confirmed HIV positive, and 35.88% of participants ( n = 901/2511) were positive on treponemal reference testing. Of all participants showing evidence of antibodies to Treponema pallidum , 50.56% ( n = 455/900) were Rapid Plasma Reagin (RPR) test reactive. Of HIV positive individuals, 60.62% ( n = 354/584) had evidence of antibodies to T. pallidum , and of these 60.45% ( n = 214/354) exhibited reactive RPR tests indicating probable (co)infection. For Bioline POCT, pooled sensitivities and specificities for HIV were 98.95% and 99.89% respectively, and for syphilis were 73.79% and 99.57%. For Chembio pooled sensitivities and specificities for HIV were 98.66% and 99.55%, and for syphilis were 78.60% and 99.48%. Both tests can detect greater than 90% of probable active syphilis cases, as defined by reactive RPR and treponemal test results. These dual POCTs were preferred by 74.77% ( n = 1,926) of participants, due to their convenience, and the operational characteristics made them acceptable to health care providers (HCPs). Conclusions Both the Bioline and the Chembio dual POCT for syphilis and HIV had acceptable performance, acceptability and operational characteristics amongst MSM in the PRoSPeRo network. These dual POCTs could serve as a strategic, more cost effective, patient and healthcare provider (HCP) friendly alternative to conventional testing; in clinical and other field settings, especially those in resource-limited settings.
Abstract Introduction International guidelines recommend routine screening for syphilis (aetiological agent: Treponema pallidum subspecies pallidum ) amongst key populations and vulnerable populations using tests detecting treponemal and non-treponemal antibodies. Whilst treponemal tests have high sensitivities and specificities, they differ regarding subjective or objective interpretation, throughput and workload. Chemiluminescence immunoassays (CLIAs) are cost- and time-effective automated methods for detecting treponemal antibodies. The Treponema pallidum particle agglutination assay (TPPA) has been considered the “gold standard” treponemal assay, however, this includes a highly manual procedure, low throughput and subjective interpretation. The present multi-country study evaluated the ADVIA Centaur® Syphilis CLIA (Siemens Healthcare) assay compared to the reference SERODIA-TP·PA® (Fujirebio Diagnostics) for the serodiagnosis of syphilis amongst men who have sex with men (MSM). Method 1,485 MSM were enrolled in Brighton (UK), Malta, and Verona (Italy) as part of a larger WHO multi-country and multi-site ProSPeRo study. Ethical approval was obtained. Serum was tested with the ADVIA Centaur® Syphilis CLIA assay and SERODIA-TP·PA®, in accordance with the manufacturers’ instructions, for a first round of validation. A second round of validation was carried out for discrepant results that were additionally tested with both Western Blot (Westernblot EUROIMMUN®) and an Immunoblot (INNO-LIA, Fujirebio Diagnostics). Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value (PPV and NPV), likelihood ratios (positive/negative), and the Diagnostic Odds Ratio (DOR)/pre-post-test probability (Fagan's nomogram) were calculated. Results Out of 1,485 eligible samples analysed in the first phase, the SERODIA-TP·PA® identified 360 positive and 1,125 negative cases. The ADVIA Centaur® Syphilis CLIA assay (Siemens) identified 366 positives, missclassifying one TPPA-positive sample. In the second phase, the ADVIA Centaur® Syphilis CLIA resulted in 1 false negative and 4 false positive results. Considering the syphilis study prevalence of 24% (95% CI: 22–26.7), The sensitivity of the ADVIA Centaur® Syphilis CLIA assay was 99.7% (95% CI: 98.5–100), and the specificity was 99.4% (95% CI: 98.7–99.7). The ROC area values were 0.996 (95% CI: 0.992–0.999), and both the PPV and NPV values were above 98% (PPV 98.1%, 95% CI: 96.1–99.2; NPV 99.9%, 95% CI: 99.5–100). Conclusions The ADVIA Centaur® Syphilis CLIA assay showed similar performance compared to the SERODIA-TP·PA®. Considering the study is based on QUADAS principles and with a homogeneous population, results are also likely to be generalisable to MSM population but potentially not applicable to lower prevalence populations routinely screened for syphilis. The automated CLIA treponemal assay confirmed to be accurate and appropriate for routine initial syphilis screening, i.e. when the reverse testing algorithm is applied.
Abstract Introduction Over 50% of hospitalised older people with dementia have multimorbidity, and are at an increased risk of hospital readmissions within 30 days of their discharge. Between 20-40% of these readmissions may be preventable. Current research focuses on the physical causes of hospital readmissions. However, older people with dementia have additional psychosocial factors that are likely to increase their risk of readmissions. This narrative review aimed to identify psychosocial determinants of hospital readmissions, within the context of known physical factors. Methods Electronic databases MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and PsychInfo were searched from inception until July 2022 and followed up in February 2024. Quantitative and qualitative studies in English including adults aged 65 years and over with dementia, their care workers and informal carers were considered if they investigated hospital readmissions. An inductive approach was adopted to map the determinants of readmissions. Identified themes were described as narrative categories. Results Seventeen studies including 7,194,878 participants met our inclusion criteria from a total of 6369 articles. Sixteen quantitative studies included observational cohort and randomised controlled trial designs, and one study was qualitative. Ten studies were based in the USA, and one study each from Taiwan, Australia, Canada, Sweden, Japan, Denmark, and The Netherlands. Large hospital and insurance records provided data on over 2 million patients in one American study. Physical determinants included reduced mobility and accumulation of long-term conditions. Psychosocial determinants included inadequate hospital discharge planning, limited interdisciplinary collaboration, socioeconomic inequalities among ethnic minorities, and behavioural and psychological symptoms. Other important psychosocial factors such as loneliness, poverty and mental well-being, were not included in the studies. Conclusion Poorly defined roles and responsibilities of health and social care professionals and poor communication during care transitions, increase the risk of readmission in older people with dementia. These identified psychosocial determinants are likely to significantly contribute to readmissions. However, future research should focus on the understanding of the interaction between a host of psychosocial and physical determinants, and multidisciplinary interventions across care settings to reduce hospital readmissions.
Abstract Introduction Post-infectious glomerulonephritis (PIGN) is an immune complex glomerulonephritis that commonly affects children and young adults following beta haemolytic Streptococcal throat or skin infections. Kidney biopsy is characterised by Segmental or global endocapillary hypercellularity, and crescents may be present. In immunofluorescence, post-infectious glomerulonephritis typically shows IgG and C3 deposition. A rare type of PIGN is IgA-dominant post-infection glomerulonephritis. It commonly occurs in the setting of active infection. It usually presents in patients &amp;gt; 60 years old with diabetes mellitus, alcohol consumption, and Staphylococcal infections. It can present with RPGN, AKI, and nephrotic syndrome. Hypocomplementemia can be present, and immunofluorescence is characterised by IgA dominance with C3 co-dominance and no IgG. Despite the strong association with Staph aureus, however, it has been reported with other types of infections. The main line of treatment is antibiotic eradication of the infection. Steroids can be used based on the severity of the lesion and the presence of crescents. Its prognosis is worse than that of the traditional PIGN. In this case, we report a case of IgA-dominant post-infectious glomerulonephritis secondary to left ankle osteomyelitis with Staph aureus infection. Case Presentation A 65-year-old lady had open reduction and internal fixation of a left trimalleolar ankle fracture in June 2023 at a district general hospital. Unfortunately, the post-operative course was complicated by wound infection. The wound swab showed Heavy growth of Staphylococcus aureus. This was followed by Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) stage 3; therefore, she was transferred from her hospital to our renal ward. On admission to the ward, her creatinine was 388 μmol/L(baseline creatinine was 73 μmol/L one month before admission), urine dipstick was positive for blood and protein, and urine protein creatinine ratio was 480 mg/mmol. She had only a medical background of bronchial asthma for which she was only on Inhalers (Beta Agonist) as a regular medication. CT scan of the left ankle revealed appearances consistent with osteomyelitis of both the lateral and medial malleoli. This finding was discussed with microbiology and orthopaedic teams, and the patient was started on intravenous antibiotics (Vancomycin followed by doxycycline). A kidney biopsy was done. Mesangial electron-dense deposits were identified. Immunohistochemistry revealed IgA dominant, predominantly mesangial positivity, with associated C3. The picture was consistent with IgA acute glomerulonephritis associated with S. aureus, which is a post-infectious Glomerulonephritis with dominant IgA staining (rather than conventional IgA nephropathy). With proper intravenous hydration and antibiotics, her inflammatory markers started to improve, and her renal chemistry followed the inflammatory markers, and her last creatinine improved to 146 μmol/L, eGFR 31 ml/min and UPCR was 40 mg/mmol. Discussion IgA-dominant post-infectious glomerulonephritis is now a distinct form of PIGN, which usually presents with acute kidney injury, haematuria, and proteinuria and is typically related to Staph aureus infection. In contrast to typical IgA nephropathy, there is no role for steroid or immunosuppression in the treatment of IgA-dominant post-infectious glomerulonephritis, and the treatment is mainly dependent on the treatment of infection.
Abstract INTRODUCTION Tackling dementia stigma is a policy priority. In Indonesia, we have little insight into the general public's knowledge and attitudes about dementia. METHODS Cross‐sectional study of 4430 Indonesian adults recruited from Jakarta and North Sumatra, Indonesia. Measures included dementia knowledge and attitudes. RESULTS A total of 86.3% ( n = 3,803) of adults had not heard of the terms dementia or Alzheimer's disease, and commonly viewed dementia as a normal part of aging. Being older, incorrect knowledge about etiology, not having heard of the terms dementia and/or Alzheimer's disease, having less than primary education, and being from North Sumatra were associated with more negative attitudes ( p ‐values &lt; 0.05). DISCUSSION Misconceptions and lack of awareness about dementia are common in Indonesia. Attitudes tended not to be negative, but our research highlights factors associated with dementia attitudes. Future research should use this information to better tailor and target potential anti‐stigma strategies. Highlights Most Indonesians had not heard of the terms dementia and/or Alzheimer's disease and thought it was caused by normal aging. The majority of participants held mixed or positive attitudes towards dementia. A series of demographic factors alongside poor awareness were associated with negative attitudes towards dementia.
Abstract Introduction The British HIV Association (BHIVA) guidelines were amended during the coronavirus (COVID‐19) pandemic, allowing for less frequent monitoring of routine bloods. We assessed the impact of this on patient outcomes. Methods Between April 2020 and March 2021, routine blood appointments at our HIV clinic were replaced by virtual consultations in ‘stable’ people living with HIV (PLWH), defined using standard operating procedure (SOP) criteria. All had an undetectable HIV viral load (VL) (&lt;50 copies/mL). Demographic, HIV clinical information, and antiretroviral treatment (ART) data were collated using the electronic patient record (EPR). Blood results from before (baseline) and after (follow‐up) the omitted appointment were analysed for each parameter. Results In all, 791/2395 PLWH were scheduled to have blood tests omitted; 381 were excluded for reasons including not fitting the SOP criteria or presenting to clinic early, and 410 were included in analysis. The demographics of the group were consistent with our whole HIV cohort. HIV VL became detectable in 8/410 individuals (1.95%, range 51–730 copies/mL). VL resuppressed in 6/8 after a median of 29 days. VL remained detectable in two individuals, both of whom remain in care. Routine blood monitoring revealed baseline and follow‐up blood parameters that were largely within normal range. Four out of 12 parameters had statistically significant changes but were not considered clinically significant; 59/410 (14.4%) changed ART, most commonly for simplification. Conclusion For the majority of stable PLWH included in our evaluation, the omission of routine blood monitoring during the pandemic did not have a negative impact on HIV suppression or blood monitoring outcomes. ART switch was uncommon.
Abstract Introduction The extent to which individuals living with HIV experience residential and healthcare mobility during pregnancy in the UK is unknown. We aimed to determine a minimum estimate of residential and healthcare mobility during pregnancy in people living with HIV in the UK in 2009–2019 to explore patterns of and factors associated with mobility and to assess whether mobility was associated with specific HIV outcomes. Methods We analyzed data from the Integrated Screening Outcomes Surveillance Service to assess pregnancies with HIV in the UK and included livebirths and stillbirths with estimated delivery in 2009–2019. Residential mobility was defined as changing residential postcode between notification and delivery, and healthcare mobility was defined as changing NHS Trust or Strategic Health Authority (SHA) in that same timeframe. We used logistic regression to determine factors associated with residential and healthcare mobility and with detectable delivery viral load. Results Among 10 305 pregnancies, 19.6% experienced residential mobility, 8.1% changed NHS Trust, and 4.5% changed SHA during pregnancy. Mobility was more likely to be experienced by younger women, migrants, and those with new antenatal diagnosis; residential but not healthcare mobility declined over time. In a fully adjusted model, mobility was not associated with having a detectable viral load at delivery. Higher proportions of infants were lost to follow‐up after mobile pregnancies than after non‐mobile pregnancies. Conclusions This analysis provides new knowledge on mobility during pregnancy in the context of HIV, but further research is needed to understand its broader impacts and its utility as a marker to help identify families requiring additional follow‐up and support.
ABSTRACT Introduction The profound impact of wounds on the quality of life of those affected is often underestimated. Chronic wounds impose substantial burdens on individuals and communities in terms of disability, mental distress, stigma, and economic productivity losses. To effectively address these challenges, an integrated and comprehensive approach to primary healthcare-based chronic wound care prevention and management is essential. This implementation research study aims to assess the integration and scale-up of a comprehensive package of primary healthcare-based wound care and psycho-social support for persons affected by chronic wounds caused by neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) and other conditions in selected districts in Ethiopia. Methods The study will be implemented in Central Ethiopia in three stages, utilizing a mixed-methods approach to co-develop a comprehensive care package and progressively implement the care package building on learnings from successive stages of implementation. Stage 1 will encompass the co-development of a holistic wound care package and strategies for its integration into routine health services. Stage 2 will involve a pilot study in one sub-district, to establish the care package adoption, feasibility, acceptability, fidelity, potential effectiveness, readiness for scale-up, and costs. Stage 3 will involve the scale-up of the wound care package and its evaluation in several districts. Ethics and dissemination Ethics approval was obtained for the study from the relevant authorities in both the UK (Ref no: ER-BSMS9D79-6) and Ethiopia [Reference no. 013/23/CDT]. The results of the study will be disseminated through a variety of channels, including publications in scientific journals, conference presentations, policy briefs, and workshops. This will ensure that the findings are disseminated widely to the scientific community, policymakers, and the public. Strengths and limitations of this study Strengths This study will address a critical gap in Ethiopia, where there is a significant health burden due to chronic wounds from skin-NTDs and other conditions, for which primary healthcare integration of wound care could improve accessibility and outcomes for affected persons, their families and communities. The study will use implementation research methods to examine the integration and scale-up of a primary healthcare-based package for wound care and psychosocial support, which is crucial for wider adoption and sustainability. The use of a mixed-methods design will enable a comprehensive understanding of the care package’s feasibility and effectiveness. Limitations Lack of a comparison group (i.e. control group). Whilst the study will include provision of essential medical supplies to bridge local shortages and support disadvantaged patients, provision of care after the study period is beyond the scope of this study. However, the study team will work closely with the local health administration and the Ministry of Health to ensure the sustainability of services.
Abstract INTRODUCTION Trials of effectiveness of treatment options for depression in dementia are an important priority. METHODS Randomized controlled trial to assess adapted Problem Adaptation Therapy (PATH) for depression in mild/moderate dementia caused by Alzheimer's disease. RESULTS Three hundred thirty‐six participants with mild or moderate dementia, &gt;7 on Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia (CSDD), randomized to adapted PATH or treatment as usual. Mean age 77.0 years, 39.0% males, mean Mini‐Mental State Examination 21.6, mean CSDD 12.9. For primary outcome (CSDD at 6 months), no statistically significant benefit with adapted PATH on the CSDD (6 months: −0.58; 95% CI −1.71 to 0.54). The CSDD at 3 months showed a small benefit with adapted PATH (−1.38; 95% CI −2.54 to −0.21) as did the EQ‐5D (−4.97; 95% CI −9.46 to −0.48). DISCUSSION An eight‐session course of adapted PATH plus two booster sessions administered within NHS dementia services was not effective treatment for depression in people with mild and moderate dementia. Future studies should examine the effect of more intensive and longer‐term therapy.
Abstract Is it foolish to talk or write about hope in the face of widespread existential crises? Our answer is ‘no’. On the contrary, hope is more necessary the bleaker things become. In this article, we explore hope as a practice. Influenced by the abolition geography of Ruth Wilson Gilmore, we build on John Holloway's argument that such practices start from ourselves, where we are and our own capacities, and overflow that which contains us. We write as resident‐activists within three community organisations in the place we live in. Extending existing geographical literature, we show how our resident‐activism is distinct from, yet also entangled with, scholar‐activism and the struggles, contradictions and potential solidarities found in the UK's marketised universities. This way of working can itself be seen as a practice of hope. The article further explores practices of hope that emerge within the three organisations. Though emplaced, these practices are not confined in space or time, drawing rather on history as a resource and connecting with broader national and international processes. The article concludes by using Holloway's concept of rage‐joy to bring together practices of hope across the three organisations and among us as resident‐activists and participants in industrial action over pay, casualisation, workloads, equalities and pensions in UK universities. The result is a capacity to see the human in each other, a necessary step in resisting resurgent fascist politics and addressing existential crises.
Abstract Non-invasive cardiac output monitoring, via electrical biosensing technology (EBT), provides continuous, multi-parameter hemodynamic variable monitoring which may allow for timely identification of hemodynamic instability in some neonates, providing an opportunity for early intervention that may improve neonatal outcomes. EBT encompasses thoracic (TEBT) and whole body (WBEBT) methods. Despite the lack of relative accuracy of these technologies, as compared to transthoracic echocardiography, the use of these technologies in neonatology, both in the research and clinical arena, have increased dramatically over the last 30 years. The European Society of Pediatric Research Special Interest Group in Non-Invasive Cardiac Output Monitoring, a group of experienced neonatologists in the field of EBT, deemed it appropriate to provide recommendations for the use of TEBT and WBEBT in the field of neonatology. Although TEBT is not an accurate determinant of cardiac output or stroke volume, it may be useful for monitoring longitudinal changes of hemodynamic parameters. Few recommendations can be made for the use of TEBT in common neonatal clinical conditions. It is recommended not to use WBEBT to monitor cardiac output. The differences in technologies, study methodologies and data reporting should be addressed in ongoing research prior to introducing EBT into routine practice. Impact statement TEBT is not recommended as an accurate determinant of cardiac output (CO) (or stroke volume (SV)). TEBT may be useful for monitoring longitudinal changes from baseline of hemodynamic parameters on an individual patient basis. TEBT-derived thoracic fluid content (TFC) longitudinal changes from baseline may be useful in monitoring progress in respiratory disorders and circulatory conditions affecting intrathoracic fluid volume. Currently there is insufficient evidence to make any recommendations regarding the use of WBEBT for CO monitoring in neonates. Further research is required in all areas prior to the implementation of these monitors into routine clinical practice.
Abstract Objective Investigate the acceptability of Specialist Psychotherapy with Emotion for Anorexia in Kent and Sussex (SPEAKS), a novel intervention for anorexia nervosa (AN), conducted as a feasibility trial to provide an initial test of the intervention. Methods SPEAKS therapy lasting 9–12 months was provided to 34 people with AN or atypical AN by eight specialist eating disorder therapists trained in the model across two NHS Trusts in the UK (Kent and Sussex) during a feasibility trial. All participants were offered a post‐therapy interview; sixteen patients and six therapists agreed. All patient participants were adult females. Interviews were semi‐structured and asked questions around individuals' experience of SPEAKS, the acceptability of the intervention and of the research methods. Interviews were analyzed using thematic analysis. Results Key areas explored in line with research questions led to 5 overarching themes and 14 subthemes: (1) shift in treatment focus and experience, (2) balancing resources and treatment outcomes, (3) navigating the online treatment environment, (4) therapist adaptation and professional development, and (5) research processes. Discussion SPEAKS was found to be an acceptable intervention for treating AN from the perspective of patients and therapists. The findings provide strong support for delivery of a larger scale randomized control trial. Recommendations for future improvements, particularly pertaining to therapist understanding of the treatment model are detailed, alongside broader clinical implications. Public Significance We aimed to evaluate the acceptability of a new anorexia nervosa treatment called SPEAKS. Interviews were conducted with patients and therapists involved in the pilot study and responses were analyzed. Results showed that both patients and therapists found SPEAKS to be an acceptable treatment for anorexia nervosa. The study suggests that SPEAKS meets the criteria for moving forward with a larger trial to assess its effectiveness.
ABSTRACT Objective To determine whether vitamin D supplementation influences grip strength, explosive leg power, cardiorespiratory fitness and risk of exercise-induced bronchoconstriciton (EIB) in South African schoolchildren. Methods Sub-study (n=450) in Cape Town schoolchildren aged 8-11 years, nested within a phase 3 randomised placebo-controlled trial (ViDiKids). The intervention was weekly oral doses of 10,000 IU vitamin D 3 (n=228) or placebo (n=222) for 3 years. Outcome measures were serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D 3 (25[OH]D 3 ) concentrations, grip strength, standing long jump distance, peak oxygen uptake (VO 2peak , determined using 20-metre multi-stage shuttle run tests) and the proportion of children with EIB, all measured at end-study. Results 64.7% of participants had serum 25(OH)D 3 concentrations &lt;75 nmol/L at baseline. At 3-year follow-up, children randomised to vitamin D vs. placebo had higher mean serum 25(OH)D 3 concentrations (97.6 vs. 58.8 nmol/L respectively; adjusted mean difference [aMD] 39.9 nmol/L, 95% CI 36.1 to 43.6) and long jump distance (128.3 vs. 122.1 cm; aMD 3.6 cm, 95% CI 0.0 to 7.2). No end-study differences in grip strength, VO 2peak , or spirometric lung volumes were seen, but administration of vitamin D vs. placebo was associated with a borderline-significant increased risk of EIB (14.5% vs. 8.6%; adjusted odds ratio 1.92, 95% CI 0.99 to 3.73). Conclusion A 3-year course of weekly oral supplementation with 10,000 IU vitamin D 3 elevated serum 25(OH)D 3 concentrations in South African schoolchildren and induced a small increase in long jump distance, but had no effect on grip strength or V O2 peak . Potential effects of vitamin D on risk of EIB require further research. KEY MESSAGES What is already known on this topic? Observational studies have reported that vitamin D deficiency associates with reduced muscle strength and peak oxygen uptake and increased risk of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) in children. Randomised controlled trials (RCT) of vitamin D supplementation to improve children’s muscle strength and cardiorespiratory fitness have yielded conflicting results. What this study adds This RCT, conducted in South African schoolchildren aged 8-11 years at baseline, found that a 3-year course of weekly oral supplementation with 10,000 IU vitamin D 3 improved vitamin D status and resulted in a small (3.6 cm), borderline-significant increase in long jump distance, but had no effect on grip strength or peak oxygen uptake. Administration of vitamin D was associated with a borderline-significant increased risk of EIB. How this study might affect research, practice or policy Taken together with null results from another Phase 3 randomised controlled trial of vitamin D supplementation conducted in Mongolian children, our findings do not suggest that weekly oral vitamin D supplementation exerts clinically significant effects on muscle strength or peak oxygen uptake in schoolchildren in whom rickets has been excluded. Further research into potential effects of vitamin D supplementation on risk of EIB is needed.
ABSTRACT Objective To determine whether weekly oral vitamin D supplementation influences grip strength, explosive leg power, cardiorespiratory fitness or spirometric lung volumes in Mongolian schoolchildren. Methods Multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial conducted in children aged 6-13 years at baseline attending 18 schools in Ulaanbaatar. The intervention was weekly oral doses of 14,000 IU vitamin D 3 (n=4418) or placebo (n=4433) for 3 years. Outcome measures were grip strength, standing long jump distance and serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25[OH]D) concentrations (determined in all participants), peak oxygen uptake (VO 2peak , determined in a subset of 632 participants using 20-metre multi-stage shuttle run tests) and spirometric outcomes (determined in a subset of 1,343 participants). Results 99.8% of participants had serum 25(OH)D concentrations &lt;75 nmol/L at baseline, and mean end-study 25(OH)D concentrations in children randomised to vitamin D vs. placebo were 77.4 vs. 26.7 nmol/L (mean difference 50.7 nmol/L, 95% CI, 49.7 to 51.4). However, vitamin D supplementation did not influence mean grip strength, standing long jump distance, VO 2peak , spirometric lung volumes or peak expiratory flow rate, either overall or within sub-groups defined by sex, baseline 25(OH)D concentration &lt;25 vs. ≥25 nmol/L or calcium intake &lt;500 vs. ≥500 mg/day. Conclusion A 3-year course of weekly oral supplementation with 14,000 IU vitamin D 3 elevated serum 25(OH)D concentrations in Mongolian schoolchildren with a high baseline prevalence of vitamin D deficiency. However, this intervention did not influence grip strength, explosive leg power, peak oxygen uptake or spirometric lung volumes, either overall or in sub-group analyses. KEY MESSAGES What is already known on this topic? Observational studies have reported that vitamin D deficiency associates with reduced muscle strength and peak oxygen uptake in children, but randomised controlled trials (RCT) of vitamin D supplementation to improve grip strength and cardiorespiratory fitness in this age-group have yielded conflicting results. What this study adds This Phase 3 multicentre RCT of vitamin D supplementation, conducted in Mongolian schoolchildren with a high baseline prevalence of asymptomatic vitamin D deficiency, found that a 3-year course of weekly oral supplementation with 14,000 IU vitamin D 3 was effective in elevating serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations. However this intervention did not influence participants’ grip strength, long jump distance, peak oxygen uptake, spirometric lung volumes or peak expiratory flow rate, either overall or in sub-group analyses. How this study might affect research, practice or policy Taken together with results from another Phase 3 randomised controlled trial of vitamin D supplementation conducted in South African children, our findings do not suggest a role for weekly oral vitamin D supplementation to enhance muscle strength, peak oxygen uptake or respiratory function in schoolchildren in whom rickets has been excluded.
ABSTRACT Objectives How dementia affects lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, queer people or those with other minoritised sexual/gender identities (LGBTQ+) is not well understood. Furthermore, existing research often excludes the voices of LGBTQ+ people living with dementia and focuses instead on their care partners. This study addresses this evidence gap by drawing on the ESRC/NIHR funded DETERMIND cohort, consisting of 940 newly diagnosed people with dementia, to explore the peri‐diagnostic experiences of people living with dementia who identify as LGBTQ+. Methods We recruited five people (who identified as lesbian, gay or bisexual [LGB]) and completed semi‐structured interviews with them and their partner caregivers ( n = 3) discussing their experiences of (1) engaging with dementia health care services, (2) receiving a dementia diagnosis, and (3) the support they were offered after diagnosis. Interviews were shaped by the Candidacy Framework, a theoretical model for understanding accessibility of health services, and an inductive thematic analysis was employed to develop common themes. Findings Participants did not routinely disclose their LGBTQ+ identities to health service professionals, despite feeling this was an essential aspect of who they are. They relied on their resilience of overcoming previous experiences of lifetime discrimination to navigate complicated dementia care systems. The importance of ‘chosen families’ as informal support networks for LGBTQ+ people living with dementia was highlighted, particularly given the lack of formal care services they felt comfortable accessing. All participants were concerned about their future care needs and whether they would receive home‐based or community‐based support that respected their LGBTQ+ identities. Conclusions This study adds to the limited evidence base that can be used to inform future research, policy and practice seeking to address inequalities across the dementia care pathway. We only interviewed people who identified as LGB so generalizability to the whole LGBTQ+ population is limited, however our data suggest dementia health care professionals should encourage and support disclosures of LGBTQ+ identities so that inclusive care and support planning can be provided to LGBTQ+ people at every stage of dementia.
Abstract Objectives Schistosomiasis is persistent in Lake Albert, Uganda, but local data are limited. This study aims to describe the local burden of moderate‐to‐heavy infection and associated morbidity in all ages and identify factors associated with these outcomes to guide further research. Methods This cross‐sectional pilot study was conducted in July–August, 2022 in four village sites (Walukuba, Rwentale, Kyabarangwa and Runga) of the Praziquantel in Preschoolers (PIP) trial. Residents (approximately four per household) of any age of households of PIP participants were eligible, but individuals &lt;10 years were only enrolled if no older individuals were available. Socio‐demographic information, household location, single stool Kato‐Katz and hepatic ultrasound results were obtained for a convenience sampled subset of trial households. The primary outcome, moderate‐to‐heavy infection (≥100 eggs per gram of faeces), was analysed using mixed‐effects logistic regression, with a household random effect. Univariate analyses were used for the secondary outcome, periportal fibrosis (Niamey protocol ultrasound image pattern C–F). Results Of 243 participants with a median age of 22 (interquartile range 12–33) years from 66 households, 49.8% (103/207 with a Kato‐Katz result) had moderate‐to‐heavy infection and 11.2% (25/224 with ultrasound data) had periportal fibrosis. Moderate‐to‐heavy infection clustered by household (intraclass correlation coefficient = 0.11) and, in multivariable analysis, varied by village (Walukuba vs. Kyabarangwa adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 0.11, 95% CI 0.02–0.71), was highest in participants aged 10–15 years (vs. 5–9 years aOR 6.14, 95% CI 1.61–23.38) and lower in those reporting praziquantel treatment in the past year (aOR 0.39, 95% CI 0.18–0.88). Conclusions In this setting, schistosome infection and morbidity are pervasive in all age groups. More intensive interventions are needed, for example more frequent praziquantel treatment, under investigation in the PIP trial and improved water and sanitation. More research is needed to understand local treatment barriers and optimal control strategies.
Abstract Objectives The Scrotal and Penile Imaging Working Group (SPIWG) of the European Society of Urogenital Radiology (ESUR) aimed to produce recommendations on the role of the radiologist in the evaluation of male infertility focused on scrotal imaging. Methods The authors independently performed an extensive literature Medline search and a review of the clinical practice and consensus opinion of experts in the field. Results Scrotal ultrasound (US) is useful in investigating male infertility. US abnormalities related to abnormal sperm parameters (sperm concentration, total count, motility, and morphology) are low testicular volume (TV), testicular inhomogeneity (TI), cryptorchidism, testicular microlithiasis (TML), high-grade varicocele, bilateral absence of vas deferens, bilateral dilation and echotexture abnormalities of the epididymis. The proposed ESUR-SPIWG recommendations for imaging in the evaluation of male infertility are therefore: to measure TV; investigate TI; perform annual (US) follow-ups up to age 55 in men with a history of cryptorchidism/orchidopexy and/or in men with TML plus “additional risk factors” or with “starry sky” TML; perform scrotal/inguinal US in men with nonpalpable testis; perform scrotal US in men with abnormal sperm parameters to investigate lesions suggestive of tumors; evaluate varicocele in a standardized way; evaluate the presence or absence of vas deferens; investigate the epididymis to detect indirect signs suggesting obstruction and/or inflammation. Conclusions The ESUR-SPIWG recommends investigating infertile men with scrotal US focusing on TV, inhomogeneity, localization, varicocele, vas deferens, and epididymal abnormalities. Cryptorchidism, TML, and lesions should be detected in relation to the risk of testicular tumors. Clinical relevance statement The ESUR-SPIWG recommendations on scrotal imaging in the assessment of male infertility are useful to standardize the US examination, focus on US abnormalities most associated with abnormal semen parameters in an evidence-based manner, and provide a standardized report to patients. Key Points So far, ESUR-SPIWG recommendations on scrotal imaging in the assessment of male infertility were not available. The ESUR-SPIWG recommends investigating infertile men with scrotal US focusing on testicular volume, inhomogeneity, localization, varicocele, vas deferens and epididymal abnormalities, and assessing cryptorchidism, testicular microlithiasis and lesions in relation to the risk of testicular tumors. The ESUR-SPIWG recommendations on scrotal imaging in the assessment of male infertility are useful to standardize the US examination, focus on US abnormalities most associated with abnormal sperm parameters in an evidence-based manner, and provide a standardized report to patients.
Abstract Organisation of the transcription cycle is facilitated by the reversible phosphorylation of the C-terminal domain of RNA Polymerase II (RNAPII-CTD) and its accessory factors. The PNUTS-PP1 protein phosphatase is crucial for mRNA synthesis and processing, yet the complete spectrum of its physiological targets in these processes remain elusive. Here, using quantitative phosphoproteomics, we discover that Cdk11, in addition to various spliceosomal and RNA processing factors, associates with PNUTS, and that disruption of PP1-binding results in hyperphosphorylation of Cdk11 at an evolutionarily conserved Serine residue, seven amino acid residues C-terminal to DFG residues in the activation loop. In vitro experiments reveal a role for Ser DFG+7 in modulating Cdk11 kinase activity towards RNAPII-CTD Ser5. Making use of a novel technique to conditionally disrupt PP1 binding, we show that PNUTS-PP1 normally serves to restrain Cdk11 phosphorylation in vivo . Mutational analysis shows that cdk11 is not only essential for survival but also plays a widespread role in regulating normal mRNA expression and splicing. Notably, we find that a phosphomimetic mutation in cdk11 exhibits distinct biological effects compared to loss of cdk11 function, including defective processing of intronic small nucleolar RNAs, diminished intronic RNA Pol II velocity, and a decrease in intergenic transcription. These findings underscore physiologically significant roles of Cdk11 dephosphorylation by PNUTS-PP1 in the regulation of mRNA transcription and processing.
Abstract Ovarian cancer is one of the most prevalent malignancies in women. Harmaline is reported to have powerful anticancer properties. We aimed to investigate the apoptotic and antimetastatic properties of harmaline in A2780 ovarian cancer cells. Cell viability, apoptosis, migration, and invasion were investigated in cells treated with harmaline. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, mRNA expression of apoptosis‐associated genes, MMP‐2, and MMP‐9 were measured. Harmaline attenuated the viability of A2780 ovarian cancer cells in a dose‐ and time‐dependent way. Furthermore, compared to NIH/3T3 mouse normal cell line (IC50 = 417 μM), the malignant A2080 cells were more sensitive to harmaline (IC50 = 300 μM after 24 h). Harmaline increased the production of ROS, raised the mRNA expression of p53 and the Bax/Bcl2 ratio. Harmaline also increased the proportion of cells in the late apoptotic and necrotic phases. MMP‐2 and MMP‐9's mRNA expression, gelatinase activity, and migration of A2780 cells also decreased by harmaline. These findings suggest that harmaline may have the potential to be a therapeutic drug for ovarian cancer by triggering apoptosis and suppressing invasion and migration.
Abstract People differ in their predispositions to value safety maintenance (i.e., disease prevention regulatory focus) or pleasure pursuit (i.e., pleasure promotion regulatory focus). Extending recent research, results of a cross-sectional study with participants living in Portugal and Spain ( N = 770) showed that these individual differences resulted in a trade-off between potential health risks and pleasure rewards in sexual practices and experiences with casual partners. Specifically, people who were more focused on promotion (vs. prevention) reported riskier and more unrestricted sexual activities (more frequent condomless sex activities; more casual partners) and experienced more positive sexual outcomes (more sexual satisfaction; more positive and less negative affect related to condomless sex). This pattern of results remained the same after controlling for country differences, suggesting the robustness of our findings across different cultural contexts. Our study shows the complexity of sexual decisions and align with our reasoning that prevention-focused people tend to prioritize health safety, whereas promotion-focused people tend to prioritize sexual pleasure. Theoretical and applied implications are discussed.
Abstract People living with HIV (PLWH) despite having appreciable depletion of CD4 + T-cell show a good SARS- CoV-2 vaccination response. The underlying mechanism(s) are currently not understood. We studied serological and polyfunctional T-cell responses in PLWH receiving anti-retroviral therapy stratified on CD4 + counts as PLWH-high (CD4 ≥500 cells/μL) and PLWH-low (&lt;500 cells/μL). Responses were assessed longitudinally before the first vaccination (T0), 1-month after the first dose (T1), and 3- months (T2), and 6-months (T3) after the second dose. Expectedly, both PLWH-high and -low groups developed similar serological responses after T2, which were also non-significantly different to age and vaccination-matched HIV-negative controls at T3. The IgG titers were also protective showing a good correlation with ACE2-neutralizations (R=0.628, P=0.005). While no difference at T3 was observed between PLWH and controls in activated CD4 + CD154 + and CD4 + memory T-cells, spike- specific CD4 + polyfunctional cytokine expression analysis showed that PLWH preferentially express IL-2 (P&lt;0.001) and controls, IFN-γ (P=0.017). CD4 + T-cell counts negatively correlated with IL-2- expressing CD4 + T-cells including CD4 + memory T-cells (Spearman ρ: -0.85 and -0.80, respectively; P&lt;0.001). Our results suggest that the durable serological and CD4 + T-cell responses developing in vaccinated PLWH are associated with IL-2-mediated CD4 + T-cell activation that likely compensates for CD4 + T-cell depletion in PLWH.
Abstract Persistent inflammation is described in people with HIV (PWH) on antiretroviral treatment (ART). Early ART initiation is associated with reduced inflammation. We aimed to evaluate neuroinflammation, using translocator protein (TSPO) [ 11 C]PBR28 PET neuroimaging in PWH who initiated ART during acute HIV (aPWH) versus chronic HIV infection (cPWH) versus a control population. This was a cross-sectional, observational study. All participants underwent [ 11 C]PBR28 PET-CT neuroimaging. Using a two-tissue compartment model, total volume of distribution (V T ) and distribution volume ratios (DVR) using cortical grey matter as a pseudo-reference region at 20 regions of interest (ROIs) were calculated. Differences in V T and DVR were compared between groups using the Kruskall-Wallis test. Seventeen neuro-asymptomatic male PWH on ART (9 aPWH, 8 cPWH) and 8 male control participants (CPs) were included. Median (interquartile range, IQR) age was 40 (30, 46), 44 (41, 47) and 21 (20, 25) years in aPWH, cPWH and CPs, respectively. Median (IQR) CD4 (cells/µL) and CD4:CD8 were 687 (652, 1014) and 1.37 (1.24, 1.42), and 700 (500, 720) and 0.67 (0.64, 0.82) in aPWH and cPWH, respectively. Overall, no significant difference in V T and DVR were observed between the three groups at any ROIs. cPWH demonstrated a trend towards higher mean V T compared with aPWH and CPs at most ROIs. No significant differences in neuroinflammation, using [ 11 C]PBR28 binding as a proxy, were identified between cPWH, aPWH and CPs. A trend towards lower absolute [ 11 C]PBR28 binding was seen amongst aPWH and CPs, suggesting early ART may mitigate neuroinflammation.
Abstract Pharmaceutically active compounds have been considered contaminants of emerging concern, in response to evidence that these substances may adversely affect non-target organisms. The pharmaceutical metformin is the most commonly prescribed anti-diabetes medicine throughout the world. Metformin has been detected in numerous freshwater systems as well as in seawater at a number of sites around the world over the last few years, but has never been reported in the Indonesian capital city Jakarta. Several recent studies have highlighted various ecotoxicological effects of this medicine on aquatic organisms. Here we report the first evidence of metformin’s presence in Jakarta waters. Samples from the Angke river, one of the main rivers in Jakarta, were collected from six sites. Metformin was detected at three sites in concentrations ranging from 27 ng/L to 414 ng/L. Metformin is one of the most detected APIs (active pharmaceutical ingredients) in aquatic environments worldwide, and there is increasing concern regarding its impact on the health of wildlife and humans. However, this is the first report of metformin contamination in Jakarta waters, adding to the evidence of potentially increased pollution with pharmaceuticals, as noted in our previous studies. With no natural degradation processes, these chemical compounds can be easily reintroduced to the food chain and impact human health.
Abstract Pulsating heat pipes are two-phase passive heat transfer devices partially filled with a working fluid in saturation conditions. During operation, supplying heat to one end of the system (named evaporator) results in a local increase in temperature and pressure, which drives the fluid through a transport section (named adiabatic section) towards the cooled, opposite end (named condenser) for effective heat dissipation. The local thermo-fluid dynamic state of the working fluid is sometimes assessed by means of non-intrusive techniques, such as infrared thermography. In this case, the radiative properties of the systems in the infrared spectrum must be known a priori. Nevertheless, since pulsating heat pipes may be manufactured with different materials, wall thicknesses and channel geometries, the radiative properties of the walls and the confined flow are not always known or assessable by means of the available literature. Hence, the work proposes to design a straightforward calibration procedure for quantitative infrared fluid temperature measurements in a polymeric pulsating heat pipe charged with FC-72 and having unknown radiative properties. The emissivity and transmissivity of the walls and confined fluid are estimated with good accuracy. The results will allow repeatable and reliable fluid temperature measurements in future experimentations on the mentioned device.
Abstract Purpose of Review Despite refractory ascites (RA) due to cirrhosis having a median transplant-free survival of 6–12 months, palliative care (PC) input remains uncertain. We aimed to review the existing literature on clinical outcomes in cirrhosis-related RA and report the findings of a single-centre retrospective cohort study with a special focus on linkage to PC in this cohort of patients. Recent Findings Our study and subsequent literature review confirm the high mortality associated with cirrhosis-related RA (19–55% 1-year mortality) with only a minority of patients receiving curative options (3–23%). Despite this, in our study only a minority of patients (33%) were referred to PC. None of the studies identified in the scoping review makes any references to palliative care use. Summary Our own data and a literature review confirm that, despite high mortality, only a minority with RA due to cirrhosis are referred for specialist PC input and often too late in their disease trajectory. Future research should focus on patient-centred outcomes in this cohort of patients where optimising quality-of-life and facilitating advanced care planning should be a priority.
Abstract Serotonin is known to have state-dependent modulatory influences on exteroceptive sensory processes and the processing of pain, but much less is known about its role in ordinary interoceptive processes and their relationships to affective states. This experiment compared the impact of a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) (20mg CITALOPRAM), acutely increasing extracellular serotonin, to that of a PLACEBO on the neural processing of ordinary interoceptive sensations and the relationship of these influences to anxious states. Twenty-one healthy young volunteers completed the visceral interoceptive attention (VIA) task with each treatment, focusing attention on heart, stomach, or visual sensation control while scanned with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The relative neural interoceptive response (IR) to heart sensation [heart minus visual] and stomach sensation [stomach minus visual] were compared between treatment conditions, controlling for general effects on sensory processing. CITALOPRAM reduced interoceptive processing in viscerosensory (bilateral posterior insular cortex, stomach-IR) and integrative/affective components (bilateral amygdala, stomach-IR and heart-IR) of known interoceptive pathways. We then searched for state-dependent modulatory effects of CITALOPRAM that varied with current levels of anxiety. The anterior insular cortex response to heart sensation increased with anxiety, replicating prior findings. This relationship disappeared on CITALOPRAM. Preliminary post hoc exploration found that CITALOPRAM’S effects on amygdalae response to stomach sensation predicted acute increases and decreases in anxiety. Overall, this evidence of general and state-dependent serotonergic influence advances our understanding of interoception, its regulation, and its relationship to anxious states.
Abstract Studies on the effect of heat stress on pregnant women are scarce, particularly in highly vulnerable populations. To support the risk assessment of pregnant subsistence farmers in The Gambia, we conducted a study on the pathophysiological effects of extreme heat stress and assessed the applicability of heat stress indices. We added location-specific modelled solar radiation from ERA5 climate reanalysis to datasets from a previous observational cohort study involving on-site measurements of 92 women working in the heat. Associations between physiological and environmental variables were assessed through Pearson correlation coefficient analysis, mixed effect linear models with random intercepts per participant and confirmatory composite analysis. We found low to moderate associations (0 &lt; r &lt; 0.54) and robust estimates for independent effects of environmental variables on skin- and tympanic temperature, but not on heart rate and core temperature. Skin temperature increased more significantly in conditions above a 50% relative humidity threshold, demonstrating interactive effects between air temperature and relative humidity. Pregnant women experienced stronger pathophysiological effects of heat stress in their third than in their second trimester. In conclusion, environmental heat stress significantly altered maternal heat strain, particularly under humid conditions. Based on our results, we recommend including UTCI or WBGT in local heat-health warning systems.
Abstract Studying the effects of the microbiome on the development of different types of cancer has recently received increasing research attention. In this context, the microbial content of organs of the gastrointestinal tract has been proposed to play a potential role in the development of pancreatic cancer (PC). Proposed mechanisms for the pathogenesis of PC include persistent inflammation caused by microbiota leading to an impairment of antitumor immune surveillance and altered cellular processes in the tumor microenvironment. The limited available diagnostic markers that can currently be used for screening suggest the importance of microbial composition as a non-invasive biomarker that can be used in clinical settings. Samples including saliva, stool, and blood can be analyzed by 16 s rRNA sequencing to determine the relative abundance of specific bacteria. Studies have shown the potentially beneficial effects of prebiotics, probiotics, antibiotics, fecal microbial transplantation, and bacteriophage therapy in altering microbial diversity, and subsequently improving treatment outcomes. In this review, we summarize the potential impact of the microbiome in the pathogenesis of PC, and the role these microorganisms might play as biomarkers in the diagnosis and determining the prognosis of patients. We also discuss novel treatment methods being used to minimize or prevent the progression of dysbiosis by modulating the microbial composition. Emerging evidence is supportive of applying these findings to improve current therapeutic strategies employed in the treatment of PC.
Abstract The academic literature on personal experiences of climate-induced wellbeing erosion (often conceptualised as ‘non-economic losses and damages’) is still limited. This represents a serious climate policy gap that hinders support for marginalised people across the world including Indigenous People. Lately, we have seen a rapid growth in empirical studies exploring linkages between climate change and mental health among Indigenous Inuit in Canada. However, its association with human (im)mobility remains unexplored. This review article brings together the empirical evidence of Inuit experiences and perceptions of climate-related wellbeing loss and (im)mobility while providing climate policy with guidance for appropriate action. The systematic review investigates how Inuit in Arctic Canada felt that climatic changes impacted their (im)mobility and mental health while putting these feelings into a wider context of colonial violence, forced child removal, the residential schools, and other systematic human rights abuses. Twelve electronic databases (four specific to Arctic research) were searched for English and French, peer reviewed, qualitative studies published between 2000 and 2021. Fifteen selected articles were analysed using NVivo and thematic narrative analysis from a climate-violence-health nexus systems approach. Three overarching climate-related wellbeing loss themes, all strongly intertwined with feelings of immobility, emerged from the literature namely ‘identity and cultural loss’, ‘land connection as a source of healing’, and ‘changing environment triggering emotional distress’. The narratives circled around Inuit land connection and how climate-induced temporary (im)mobility interrupted this relationship. Climatic changes isolated Inuit away from the land and cut off their ability to partake in land activities. This strongly eroded Inuit wellbeing, expressed through distress, anxiety, depression, social tension, suicide ideation and deep feelings of cultural loss. The findings showed how Inuit mental health strongly depend on a sustained connection to the land. Further empirical research among other Indigenous People or nomadic groups on wellbeing loss and climate-induced involuntary immobility is urgently needed. Future research should particularly explore how such mental health impacts tie into past and present (post)colonial traumas and current suicide occurrences. This will help climate policy, research, and adaptation planning better prepare and propose more contextually and culturally appropriate health actions in the future.
Abstract The aim of this study was to provide an update on the epidemiology and causative agents of dermatophyte infections in England. We analysed all samples of skin, hair and nail (n = 34 624) that underwent mycological examination (microscopy and culture) in a single diagnostic microbiology laboratory in South East England over a period of 17 years (2006–2023). Fungal culture was positive for 22.0% (n = 7601) of samples. Dermatophytes accounted for 89.4% (n = 6793) of these, and nondermatophyte moulds were isolated in 4.8% (n = 366). The dermatophyte most commonly isolated was Trichophyton in 99.3% (n = 6744), followed by Microsporum in 0.5% (n = 37) and Epidermophyton in 0.2% (n = 12). Within the Trichophyton group, 99.4% (n = 6703) were pure Trichophyton isolates, while 0.6% (n = 41) displayed a mixed growth of dermatophyte and nondermatophyte moulds. Onychomycosis of the toenails was the most common infection (n = 2472), predominantly affecting women, with a mean age of 48.3 years. Trichophyton rubrum was isolated in 82.7% of cases, with positive micro­scopy (fungal hyphae observed) in 44.5%. Onychomycosis of the fingers, while less frequent (n = 427), exhibited a similar demographic profile, affecting mostly women, with a mean age of 53.7 years. Other dermatophyte infections included tinea pedis (n = 400), tinea corporis (n = 204), ­tinea cruris (n = 90), tinea manuum (n = 58) and tinea faciei (n = 14). Trichophyton rubrum was the ­commonest cause of ­dermatophyte infection across all body sites, except for tinea capitis (n = 82), where Trichophyton mentagrophytes (30.5%), Trichophyton violaceum (19.5%) and Trichophyton tonsurans (15.9%) were the most common causative agents. Non-anthropophilic species (n = 158) caused infection across all body sites, although most commonly this manifested as tinea capitis (25.3%, n = 40) or tinea corporis (20.3% n = 32). Notably, these infections were found to occur in a younger age group, with 27.8% of cases in individuals &amp;lt; 10 years old, and were more common in female patients. Trichophyton mentagrophytes, a zoophilic dermatophyte, was the most prevalent non-anthropophilic species in this study. Over the 17-year period (2006–2023), T. ­mentagrophytes, Microsporum canis and T. tonsurans showed significant declines in prevalence of 95%, 90% and 86%, respectively. Conversely, T. rubrum, constituting 75% of all dermatophytes isolated in 2006, demonstrated a substantial increase, reaching a prevalence of 95% in 2023. There were no cases of Trichophyton indotineae. This study provides an overview of recent epidemiological trends in dermatophyte infections in England. Trichophyton rubrum is increasingly the commonest cause of dermatophytosis, and the nails are the most common site of infection. Infection with non-anthropophilic species is rare and has a distinct demographic profile. Awareness of local trends in the clinical and mycological profiles of dermatophyte infections is important to guide the management of individual cases and inform public health interventions.
Abstract The Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials extension for Artificial Intelligence interventions (CONSORT-AI) was published in September 2020. Since its publication, several randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of AI interventions have been published but their completeness and transparency of reporting is unknown. This systematic review assesses the completeness of reporting of AI RCTs following publication of CONSORT-AI and provides a comprehensive summary of RCTs published in recent years. 65 RCTs were identified, mostly conducted in China (37%) and USA (18%). Median concordance with CONSORT-AI reporting was 90% (IQR 77–94%), although only 10 RCTs explicitly reported its use. Several items were consistently under-reported, including algorithm version, accessibility of the AI intervention or code, and references to a study protocol. Only 3 of 52 included journals explicitly endorsed or mandated CONSORT-AI. Despite a generally high concordance amongst recent AI RCTs, some AI-specific considerations remain systematically poorly reported. Further encouragement of CONSORT-AI adoption by journals and funders may enable more complete adoption of the full CONSORT-AI guidelines.
Abstract The efficacy of stem-cell therapy depends on the ability of the transplanted cells to escape early immunological reactions and to be retained at the site of transplantation. The use of tissue engineering scaffolds or injectable biomaterials as carriers has been proposed, but they still present limitations linked to a reliable manufacturing process, surgical practice and clinical outcomes. Alginate microbeads are potential candidates for the encapsulation of mesenchymal stromal cells with the aim of providing a delivery carrier suitable for minimally-invasive and scaffold-free transplantation, tissue-adhesive properties and protection from the immune response. However, the formation of stable microbeads relies on the cross-linking of alginate with divalent calcium ions at concentrations that are toxic for the cells, making control over the beads’ size and a single-cell encapsulation unreliable. The present work demonstrates the efficiency of an innovative, high throughput, and reproducible microfluidic system to produce single-cell, calcium-free alginate coatings of human mesenchymal stromal cells. Among the various conditions tested, visible light and confocal microscopy following staining of the cell nuclei by DAPI showed that the microfluidic system yielded an optimal single-cell encapsulation of 2000 cells/min in 2% w/v alginate microcapsules of reproducible morphology and an average size of 28.2 ± 3.7 µm. The adhesive properties of the alginate microcapsules, the viability of the encapsulated cells and their ability to escape the alginate microcapsule were demonstrated by the relatively rapid adherence of the beads onto tissue culture plastic and the cells’ ability to gradually disrupt the microcapsule shell after 24 h and proliferate. To mimic the early inflammatory response upon transplantation, the encapsulated cells were exposed to proliferating macrophages at different cell seeding densities for up to 2 days and the protection effect of the microcapsule on the cells assessed by time-lapse microscopy showing a shielding effect for up to 48 h. This work underscores the potential of microfluidic systems to precisely encapsulate cells by good manufacturing practice standards while favouring cell retention on substrates, viability and proliferation upon transplantation. Graphical Abstract
Abstract The EU has introduced a Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM), which extends its carbon prices to imported products in some sectors. Increasingly considered by other countries, such border carbon adjustments (BCAs) are facing a global backlash against the lack of consideration of the adverse impacts on developing countries and particularly, least developed countries (LDCs). This article first argues that small overall import volumes support the conclusion that exempting or lessening BCA requirements from LDCs would not undermine developed countries' climate-related objectives in practical terms. An economic analysis of EU and UK trade in relation to a CBAM supports this assertion. However, legally, such an exemption or development-based preferential treatment is difficult under existing multilateral trade rules and jurisprudence, owing to the legal characterization and objectives of BCAs; their interaction with existing special and differential treatment (SDT) provisions; and complexity of available policy options. We thus highlight the gap between normative aims of SDT provisions to support development, and current WTO law and jurisprudence which expose WTO members providing preferential treatment to allegations of discrimination. With increasing unilateral climate action, an inability to integrate SDT more meaningfully into WTO non-discrimination frameworks risks further weakening of international cooperation on climate and trade.
Abstract The question of whether physical pain and vicarious pain have some shared neural substrates is unresolved. Recent research has argued that physical and vicarious pain are represented by dissociable multivariate brain patterns by creating biomarkers for physical pain (Neurologic Pain Signature, NPS) and vicarious pain (Vicarious Pain Signature, VPS), respectively. In the current research, the NPS and two versions of the VPS were applied to three fMRI datasets (one new, two published) relating to vicarious pain which focused on between-subject differences in vicarious pain (Datasets 1 and 3) and within-subject manipulations of perspective taking (Dataset 2). Results show that (i) NPS can distinguish brain responses to images of pain vs no-pain and to a greater extent in vicarious pain responders who report experiencing pain when observing pain and (ii) neither version of the VPS mapped on to individual differences in vicarious pain and the two versions differed in their success in predicting vicarious pain overall. This study suggests that the NPS (created to detect physical pain) is, under some circumstances, sensitive to vicarious pain and there is significant variability in VPS measures (created to detect vicarious pain) to act as generalizable biomarkers of vicarious pain.
Abstract The Reduced Column Section (RCS) is a design approach recently proposed by the Authors to convert the transition piece of wind turbines into a passive vibration-control device. Featured with an hourglass shape and high-strength steel, the novel device combines the advantages of several approaches used in seismic engineering, such as the isolation system, the “rocking approach” design as well as the reduced beam section approach. Through proper tuning, the proposed device can be designed to modify the first natural frequency of the wind turbine and to localize the maximum stresses onto the device, protecting the remaining parts of the wind tower and foundation. In this study, the seismic response of an onshore wind turbine subjected to earthquakes is investigated. The numerical model is developed to reproduce a real onshore wind turbine located in Italy. Operational modal analysis is performed, and the experimental modal frequencies are used to validate the numerical model. Code-compliant spectrum-compatible nonlinear analyses are performed to explore the benefits obtained by adopting the novel RCS approach. Furthermore, an incremental dynamic analysis is conducted to evaluate the dynamic mitigation induced by the proposed RCS device. Results show that the proposed device is able to efficiently mitigate the effective stresses on the wind tower wall by up to 70% compared to the stresses on the existing structure.
Abstract The small‐molecule drug, FTY720 (fingolimod), is a synthetic sphingosine 1‐phosphate (S1P) analogue currently used to treat relapsing–remitting multiple sclerosis in both adults and children. FTY720 can cross the blood–brain barrier (BBB) and, over time, accumulate in lipid‐rich areas of the central nervous system (CNS) by incorporating into phospholipid membranes. FTY720 has been shown to enhance cell membrane fluidity, which can modulate the functions of glial cells and neuronal populations involved in regulating behaviour. Moreover, direct modulation of S1P receptor‐mediated lipid signalling by FTY720 can impact homeostatic CNS physiology, including neurotransmitter release probability, the biophysical properties of synaptic membranes, ion channel and transmembrane receptor kinetics, and synaptic plasticity mechanisms. The aim of this study was to investigate how chronic FTY720 treatment alters the lipid composition of CNS tissue in adolescent mice at a key stage of brain maturation. We focused on the hippocampus, a brain region known to be important for learning, memory, and the processing of sensory and emotional stimuli. Using mass spectrometry‐based lipidomics, we discovered that FTY720 increases the fatty acid chain length of hydroxy‐phosphatidylcholine (PCOH) lipids in the mouse hippocampus. It also decreases PCOH monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) and increases PCOH polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs). A total of 99 lipid species were up‐regulated in the mouse hippocampus following 3 weeks of oral FTY720 exposure, whereas only 3 lipid species were down‐regulated. FTY720 also modulated anxiety‐like behaviours in young mice but did not affect spatial learning or memory formation. Our study presents a comprehensive overview of the lipid classes and lipid species that are altered in the hippocampus following chronic FTY720 exposure and provides novel insight into cellular and molecular mechanisms that may underlie the therapeutic or adverse effects of FTY720 in the central nervous system.
Abstract The twenty-first century has seen the proliferation of new sexual identity subcultures rooted in creative role-play dynamics, expanding our cultural and scientific understanding of diversity in sexuality and intimacy. In an international sample of 568 people who identified with the kink subculture of pup play, we analyzed responses to open-ended questions about the discovery of pup play and communities, definitions of pup play, and motivations for engagement. Four themes were identified: (1) social technologies as central to discovery of the subculture; (2) constructionist accounts of pup identity development emerging from relationships and exposure to other kink communities; (3) individual psychological benefits of subculture participation, including stress relief, relaxation, and pleasure; and (4) social psychological benefits in identity and community building. We situate these findings in relation to the expansion of diversity in sexual identity and intimacy in the twenty-first century, facilitated by the heightened visibility and opportunities for social and intimate creativity which have accompanied the growth of social media and exposure to new sexual stories.
Abstract This article introduces a special section comprising papers examining the evolution, current state and potential futures of the subdiscipline of health geography. Geographers’ engagement with ‘health’ has transformed from a strict rooting in the ‘(bio)medical’, coinciding with, and contributing to, a paradigm shift emphasising a recognition of health as multifaceted and shaped by everyday experiential spatial practices, rhythms and identities. The development of this area of geographic scholarship, we argue, has been inextricably linked to the simultaneous growth of the Geographies of Health and Wellbeing Research Group (GHWRG) of the Royal Geographical Society (with the Institute of British Geographers), founded in 1972. Celebrating this golden jubilee, the Research Group initiated a project reflecting on how geographical knowledge on health has been produced and the networks that have influenced thinking. This coincided with an additional anniversary, the twentieth iteration of the ‘Emerging and New Researchers in the Geographies of Health &amp; Impairment’, a conference developed to support new conversations relating to geographical scholarship around ‘health’, playing an important role in the development of ideas, scholarship and community since its inception in 1994. In introducing this special section, we underscore the importance of geographic interrogations of health for addressing contemporary challenges and providing interdisciplinary contributions. The articles in the collection delve into conceptual, theoretical and methodological developments that have shaped health geography, featuring work showcasing the breadth and depth of research within the subdiscipline. Complementing these empirical pieces, the special section traces the history of the GHWRG and its contributions, alongside interviews and conversations with scholars who have played pivotal roles in shaping the evolution of the subdiscipline. Overall, we are keen to celebrate health geography scholarship, question how academic networks shape thinking about interrelationships between health and place, and reflect on potential future directions for geographical scholarship on health and wellbeing.
Abstract This article traces the past, present and future of health geography through the career journeys of three notable academics, Sarah Curtis (SC), Julia Jones (JJ) and Graham Moon (GM). All three of these scholars have had entanglements with the Geographies of Health and Wellbeing Research Group (GHWRG) of the Royal Geographical Society (with the Institute of British Geographers) (RGS‐IBG) throughout their careers, enabling them to shape health geography into the contemporary sub‐discipline that we know today. GHWRG has, for the last 50 years, offered a lively and supportive network for all those interested in the geographies of health and health care, medical geography and all other areas of scholarship related to health and wellbeing that engage with geographical concerns.
Abstract This collective article presents a theoretical kaleidoscope, the multiple lenses of which are used to examine and critique citizen science and humanities in postdigital contexts and from postdigital perspectives. It brings together 19 short theoretical and experiential contributions, organised into six loose groups which explore areas and perspectives including Indigenous and local knowledge, technology, and children and young people as citizen researchers. It suggests that this collective approach is appropriate because both postdigital and citizen research are founded on and committed to collaboration, dialogue, and co-creation, as well as challenging the tenets and approaches of traditional academic research. In particular, it suggests that postdigital transformations in contemporary societies are both changing citizen science and humanities and making it more important.
Abstract This paper describes a novel approach the development of biocompatible polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and polyurethane (PU) polymers, modified with copper (II) ions followed by the immobilisation the thrombin inhibitor argatroban (AG) using dopamine chemistry. The surface loading of the immobilised AG was 6.06 µg cm −2 on PVC and 6.66 µg cm −2 on PU, confirmed by FTIR and inhibitor concentration measurements. Both AG/Cu-modified polymers produced NO by catalytically decomposing S-nitrosothiol, reaching NO levels in plasma of 0.59 × 10 –10 $$\text{mol} \, {\text{cm}}^{-2} \, {\text{min}}^{-1}$$ <mml:math xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"> <mml:mrow> <mml:mtext>mol</mml:mtext> <mml:mspace/> <mml:msup> <mml:mrow> <mml:mtext>cm</mml:mtext> </mml:mrow> <mml:mrow> <mml:mo>-</mml:mo> <mml:mn>2</mml:mn> </mml:mrow> </mml:msup> <mml:mspace/> <mml:msup> <mml:mrow> <mml:mtext>min</mml:mtext> </mml:mrow> <mml:mrow> <mml:mo>-</mml:mo> <mml:mn>1</mml:mn> </mml:mrow> </mml:msup> </mml:mrow> </mml:math> for AG/Cu-PVC and 0.51 × 10 –10 $$\text{mol} \, {\text{cm}}^{-2} \, {\text{min}}^{-1}$$ <mml:math xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"> <mml:mrow> <mml:mtext>mol</mml:mtext> <mml:mspace/> <mml:msup> <mml:mrow> <mml:mtext>cm</mml:mtext> </mml:mrow> <mml:mrow> <mml:mo>-</mml:mo> <mml:mn>2</mml:mn> </mml:mrow> </mml:msup> <mml:mspace/> <mml:msup> <mml:mrow> <mml:mtext>min</mml:mtext> </mml:mrow> <mml:mrow> <mml:mo>-</mml:mo> <mml:mn>1</mml:mn> </mml:mrow> </mml:msup> </mml:mrow> </mml:math> for AG/Cu-PU, matching endothelial cell-produced physiological levels. This modification improved the haemocompatibility of the polymers through thrombin inhibition and reduced platelet aggregation and adhesion. Additionally, both modified polymers inhibited Staphylococcus aureus adhesion, growth and viability, confirming their acquired antibacterial properties. Antibacterial activity against Escherichia coli was also observed. These results demonstrate that modifying PVC and PU surfaces with copper (II) and AG produced materials with dual antithrombotic and antibacterial functions. Graphical abstract
Abstract This study assessed the association between atherosclerosis indices, serum uric acid to high‐density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio (UHR) and triglyceride‐glucose (TyG) index and the prevalence of hypertension among MASHAD cohort participants. In this cross‐sectional study, the participants were divided into hypertensive and non‐hypertensive subjects. The atherosclerosis indices, UHR and TyG index of the two groups were compared. Logistic regression analyses were used to determine the associations of these indices with hypertension in both sex. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was used to establish the cut‐off values for differentiating hypertensive from non‐hypertensive subjects. p ‐values &lt; .05 were considered statistically significant. Data related to 9675 subjects (3035 hypertensive and 6640 non‐hypertensive) were analyzed. The mean values of atherosclerosis indices, UHR and TyG index were significantly higher ( p &lt; .001) in the hypertensives compared to non‐hypertensives. After adjustment for potential confounders, among men, the TyG index (OR = 1.360; 95% CI: 1.210–1.530; p &lt; .001) remained an independent factor for hypertension. Among women, atherogenic index of plasma (OR = 1.005; 95% CI: 1.002–1.007; p &lt; .001), UHR (OR = 1.043; 95% CI: 1.026–1.060; p &lt; .001) and TyG index (OR = 1.519; 95% CI: 1.376–1.677; p &lt; .001) remained independent factors for hypertension. ROC curve analysis revealed that compare to the other indices, TyG index had a better predictive value for hypertension in both sex, especially in women.
Abstract This study explored the ways in which nonhuman animals were perceived to provide social support for grievers. A content analysis was conducted and four key qualities of nonhuman companion animals were identified: 1) presence, 2) continuity and purpose, 3) mutuality and connection, and 4) nature of response. Results suggest that people perceive animals to play an important role in providing emotional support through their presence and tactile experiences, to enhance a sense of purpose after loss, and perceived nonjudgmental acceptance of the griever is highly valued. Additionally, some respondents may feel closer to their loved one through contact with animals associated with them. The type of support perceived from animals overlaps in some ways with human support yet is unique in many ways. Animal support may be especially important for grieving people during pandemic isolation and in the absence of strong social networks.
Abstract This study investigated the reliability of the Affinity Altitude hypoxic generator within-day, between-day and between-generator under acute and chronic hypoxic conditions. An additional objective was to assess the validity of the fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO 2 ) values in relation to the claimed manufacture’s reference values to ensure the accuracy and safety of the product. Three altitude generators (Affinity Altitude Ltd., Sussex, UK) were assessed across all available settings during a test–retest design for equivalent FiO 2 and output volume. This consisted of two phases: 1) acute exposure (10 min per setting) and 2) chronic exposure (8 h per setting). FiO 2 and volume data were calculated from 1 min collection samples using the Douglas bag method for acute and chronic exposures. There were low variations in FiO 2 data across all settings within the acute exposure for within-day (coefficient of variation [CV] range: 0.0–2.6%), between-day (0.2–1.3%), and between-generator analysis (0.7–1.4%). This was similarly found for volume data within-day (0.1–3.7%), between-day (0.7–5.4%), and between-generator (1.2–3.0%). Equally, for chronic exposure trials, CV for FiO 2 (&lt; 4.0%) and volume (&lt; 5.0%) across each of the generators presented low variations. The FiO 2 values were similar to reference values, however, significant differences were found for settings 4 (−0.3% [17.6% vs. 17.9% reference value]) and 5 (−0.1% [15.8% vs. 15.9% reference value], both p &lt; 0.05). A ‘ good’ level of reliability (CV &lt; 5%) and validity were found within and between the Affinity Altitude’s generators. However, a review of the reference values is warranted, and long-term experimental studies are required to determine the efficacy of this device for the purpose of physiological adaptations.
Abstract To characterize the source and effects of bacterial communities on corrosion of intertidal structures, three different UK coastal sites were sampled for corrosion materials, sediment and seawater. Chemical analyses indicate the activity of sulfate‐reducing microbes (SRBs) at 2 sites (Shoreham and Newhaven), but not at the third (Southend‐on‐Sea). Microbial communities in the deep sediment and corrosion samples are similar. The phylum Proteobacteria is dominant (40.4% of the total ASV), followed by Campilobacterota (11.3%), Desulfobacterota and Firmicutes (4%–5%). At lower taxonomic levels, corrosion causing bacteria, such as Shewanella sp. (6%), Colwellia sp. (7%) and Mariprofundus sp. (1%), are present. At Southend‐on‐sea, the relative abundance of Campilobacterota is higher compared to the other two sites. The mechanism of action of microorganisms at Shoreham and Newhaven involves biogenic sulfuric acid corrosion of iron by the combined action of SRBs and sulfur‐oxidizing microbes. However, at Southend‐on‐sea, sulfur compounds are not implicated in corrosion, but SRBs and other electroactive microbes may play a role in which cathodic reactions (electrical MIC) and microbial enzymes (chemical MIC) are involved. To contribute to diagnosis of accelerated intertidal corrosion types, we developed a rapid identification method for SRBs using quantitative polymerase chain reaction high‐resolution melt curve analysis of the dsr B gene.
Abstract We aimed to investigate the association between an empirical dietary index for hyperinsulinemia (EDIH), empirical dietary index for insulin resistance (EDIR), and MetS and its components in an adult Iranian population. In this cross‐sectional study, a total of 6482 participants aged 35–65 years were recruited as part of the MASHAD cohort study. Dietary intakes were assessed using a validated food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). The International Diabetes Federation (IDF) criteria were used to define MetS. Multivariable logistic regression models were applied to determine the association between EDIH, EDIR, and MetS and its components. The mean age and BMI of participants were 48.44±8.20 years, and 27.98±4.73 kg/m 2 , respectively. Around 59% of the population was female. Of the total population, 35.4% had MetS. According to the full‐adjusted model, there was no significant association between higher quartiles of EDIH and EDIR and odds of MetS (Q4 EDIH; OR (95%CI):0.93 (0.74‐1.18), Q4 EDIR; OR (95%CI):1.14 (0.92‐1.40). Regarding MetS components, EDIR was associated with increased odds of hypertension and diabetes (Q4 EDIR; OR (95%CI):1.22 (1.04‐1.44) and 1.22 (1.01‐1.47), respectively). EDIH was also associated with decreased odds of hypertriglyceridemia (Q4 EDIH; OR (95%CI): 0.72 (0.60‐0.87)). This study showed no significant association between hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance potential of diet and odds of MetS among Iranian adults. However, EDIR was significantly associated with increased odds of hypertension and diabetes as MetS components.
Abstract Wind power is a sustainable and renewable energy source which becomes fundamental in order to meet the worldwide rising demand for energy. New onshore and offshore wind farms will be rapidly constructed in challenging environments, especially in earthquake-prone areas. Although a flexible structure, the wind turbine tower is slender and lightly damped which may exhibit a high susceptibility to earthquake-induced vibration. Whilst past studies have been based on traditional passive control devices, such as tuned mass dampers or tuned liquid column dampers, this study aims to propose a novel approach, the Reduced Column Section (RCS), to design an innovative transition piece to mitigate the vibrations on fixed wind turbines. The novel transition piece of hourglass shape will allow the control of the fundamental period of the wind turbine as well as it will limit the maximum stresses within the device by protecting the tower and the monopile. The proposed approach will be numerically tested on the 15MW benchmark wind turbine proposed by the International Energy Agency. A 3-dimensional finite element model will be generated using the commercial ADINA software and verified through the 1-dimensional baseline model provided for the open-source OPENFAST code. Therefore, the novel transition piece will be implemented and tested under a combination of multi-hazards such as wind and seismic loading. Two proposed devices, with and without auxetic lattice structure, will be investigated. The benefits of the proposed devices will be demonstrated in terms of the mitigation of the stresses on the tower wall and on the soil.
Abstract Wnt/β-catenin signaling is important for normal hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell (HSPC) biology and heavily implicated in many hematological malignancies. The central mediator, β-catenin, is an attractive therapeutic target in myeloid neoplasms however, the design of targeted agents has been hampered by a limited understanding of its molecular interactions in hematopoietic cells. To address this shortfall, we recently published the first β-catenin interactome (Morgan et al , 2019) in haematological cells and identified a plethora of novel partners which included the significant enrichment of RNA binding proteins (Wagstaff et al, 2022), including Musashi-2 (MSI2). MSI2 has been extensively implicated in normal HSC activity and also promotes aggressive myeloid leukemias where its expression confers inferior survival. Interaction between MSI2 and Wnt signalling has not previously been reported in a hematopoietic context. In this study we identify an interaction between MSI2 and β-catenin in both myeloid cell lines and primary AML patient samples where there is a significant degree of correlation between the proteins. We demonstrate that MSI2 can impact Wnt signalling output (TCF/LEF activity) through modulating LEF-1 expression and localization, and that MSI2 can further bind LEF1 transcript, an interaction augmented by β-catenin. Finally, we show that MSI2 mediated expansion of HSPCs could be partly driven through LEF1 regulation. To our knowledge this is the first study to demonstrate an interaction between MSI2 and β-catenin in haematopoietic cells, and shows the potential for β-catenin to cooperate with RBPs to govern HSPC proliferation. Finally, these data indicate β-catenin may also serve critical post-transcriptional functions (in addition to transcriptional roles) in haematopoietic cells, which could extend to regulating expression of Wnt signalling components.
Abstract. Precipitation is the most important driver of the hydrological cycle, but it is challenging to estimate it over large scales from satellites and models. Here, we assessed the performance of six global and quasi-global high-resolution precipitation datasets (European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) Reanalysis version 5 (ERA5), Climate Hazards group Infrared Precipitation with Stations version 2.0 (CHIRPS), Multi-Source Weighted-Ensemble Precipitation version 2.80 (MSWEP), TerraClimate (TERRA), Climate Prediction Centre Unified version 1.0 (CPCU), and Precipitation Estimation from Remotely Sensed Information using Artificial Neural Networks-Cloud Classification System-Climate Data Record (PERSIANN-CCS-CDR, hereafter PERCCDR) for hydrological modelling globally and quasi-globally. We forced the WBMsed global hydrological model with the precipitation datasets to simulate river discharge from 1983 to 2019 and evaluated the predicted discharge against 1825 hydrological stations worldwide, using a range of statistical methods. The results show large differences in the accuracy of discharge predictions when using different precipitation input datasets. Based on evaluation at annual, monthly, and daily timescales, MSWEP followed by ERA5 demonstrated a higher correlation (CC) and Kling–Gupta efficiency (KGE) than other datasets for more than 50 % of the stations, whilst ERA5 was the second-highest-performing dataset, and it showed the highest error and bias for about 20 % of the stations. PERCCDR is the least-well-performing dataset, with a bias of up to 99 % and a normalised root mean square error of up to 247 %. PERCCDR only show a higher KGE and CC than the other products for less than 10 % of the stations. Even though MSWEP provided the highest performance overall, our analysis reveals high spatial variability, meaning that it is important to consider other datasets in areas where MSWEP showed a lower performance. The results of this study provide guidance on the selection of precipitation datasets for modelling river discharge for a basin, region, or climatic zone as there is no single best precipitation dataset globally. Finally, the large discrepancy in the performance of the datasets in different parts of the world highlights the need to improve global precipitation data products.
Abstract:: Post-surgical peritoneal adhesions are a serious problem causing complications, such as bowel obstruction, infertility, and pain. There are currently no effective ways of preventing post-surgical adhesions. Excess secretion of proinflammatory cytokines and profibrotic molecules by immune cells and adherent fibroblasts is the main mechanism thatpromotes post-operative fibrotic scars. Although many studies have been conducted on the pathological causes of this disorder, there are still many unknown facts in this matter, so assessment of the role of different molecules in causing inflammation and adhesion can lead to the creation of new treatment methods. Connexins are a group of proteins related to gap junctions that have a role in cell communication and transmitted signaling between adjacent cells. Between different types of connexin protein isoforms, connexin43 is known to be involved in pathological conditions related to inflammation and fibrosis. Recent studies have reported that inhibition of connexin43 has the potential to reduce inflammation and fibrosis by reducing the expression of molecules like α-SMA and plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI) that are involved in the early stages of adhesion formation. Further, inhibition of connexin43 may have therapeutic potential as a target to prevent post-surgical peritoneal adhesions.
Adolescents with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) are at greater risk for mental health problems than their HIV-negative counterparts. However, there is a dearth of evidence on the need for mental health services, including interventions for depression in adolescents with HIV (AWHIV), in most low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). This study’s objective was to explore the unmet mental health needs of AWHIV to inform the development and implementation of a psychological intervention for depression in AWHIV in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. A descriptive phenomenological qualitative study design was used. Consultative meetings with providers and 45 in-depth interviews were conducted with AWHIV, caregivers, and healthcare providers (HCPs) to explore their experiences and unmet mental health needs for AWHIV. Data from the consultative meetings were triangulated to validate the obtained information with those from interviews. Data were organized and managed with the aid of NVIvo-11. The thematic analysis framework guided data analysis. Five major themes emerged: Experience of complex symptoms, unmet need for services, impact of the unmet needs, ways utilized in managing symptoms, and preferred intervention. Complex depressive symptoms expressed as physical, behavioral, or somatic complaints adversely affected ART adherence and academic performance, led to substance use, and compromised overall quality of life in AWHIV. HIV-Care and Treatment Centers (HIV-CTCs) did not conduct formal mental health screenings. Instead, caregivers and HCPs addressed the symptoms of mental health problems with death threats and corporal punishments. No evidence-based depression interventions existed in HIV-CTCs for observed symptoms. This study reports on unmet mental health needs with a clear impact on the lives of AWHIV, which may have significant implications for treatment adherence. There is an urgent need to develop and implement effective and scalable interventions to address these mental health needs.
Advances in type 1 diabetes management are enabling more to reach older ages. Frailty is known to complicate type 2 diabetes. However, frailty in people with type 1 diabetes has not been extensively researched. This review summarises the available evidence on frailty in those with type 1 diabetes.
Age-related diseases place an intense and growing stress on healthcare systems. Numerous theories of ageing exist. Yet prediction, prevention and treatment limitations of age-related disease persist because we lack a complete aetiological understanding of their origins. Here we propose a new theory that aims to provide a blueprint-type understanding of ageing and disease aetiology, working across multiple scientific disciplines. Supported by specific examples, we demonstrate that the primary driver of much of age-related diseases is the futile triggering of specific molecular pathways in a pathological manner, which we term patho-pathways. Patho-pathways induce pathological cell, tissue and system changes in the form of hyperactivity (undesirable increased and new biological activities that are typical of age related disease). As part of patho-pathways, all wild-type (normal) genes have the potential to contribute to age-related diseases (though specific risk varies and can be formularised). In a domino-style effect, one patho-pathway typically triggers others, resulting in complex, but traceable, cascades. Utility, in terms of changing clinical and scientific practice, is derived from mapping these cascades to create Blueprint Maps that allow identification of biomarkers and therapeutic targets far upstream in the causal chain of events. Finally, our theory provides testable hypotheses concerning predictions of links between otherwise seemingly disparate diseases as well as new interventions into ageing.
Aims Dementia is a debilitating disease with multiple potential causes, no cure and rising incidence. New studies suggest that gut bacteria not only aid in the digestion of bowel products but also other bodily functions such as immune systems and relaying messages to the brain. This review aims to examine the potential link between gut microbiota and dementia by performing a systematic review to assess whether gut bacteria play a role in the development of dementia. Methods The systematic review was designed and conducted according to PRISMA guidelines. A modified PICO model was used to perform a literature search in Medline, CINAHL PLUS and APA PsychInfo databases. The search identified 401 articles, 49 of which met the predefined inclusion criteria. Twenty-one final studies were included in the results; 14 cross-sectional, two cohort, three case-control, one randomised control study and one case report. The reviewer extracted and analysed data from these studies for quality using the AXIS and CASP tools. A narrative synthesis of the results was performed due to the heterogeneity of the data. Results Individuals with dementia have lower microbial diversity than healthy controls, including changes in specific bacterial taxa, pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory balance. The results of the review were subdivided into four identified themes which helped further identify that microbial metabolites, diet and gastrointestinal disease can also influence the composition of gut microbiomes and, therefore, the development of cognitive impairment and dementia. Conclusion This systematic review found a link between gut bacteria, bacterial metabolites, gastrointestinal health, diet, and dementia. Although the studies were mostly observational, they suggest that gut microbiota can affect brain function through dysbiosis, which can lead to neuroinflammation and dementia. More research is needed to confirm a causal relationship, but targeting the gut microbiota could be a potential therapy for MCI and AD. Innovative strategies may help combat the growing challenge of dementia.
Aims Floatation-REST (restricted environmental stimulation therapy) has shown promising potential as a therapeutic intervention in psychiatric conditions such as anxiety and anorexia nervosa. We speculate that the sensory deprivation might act as a kind of interoceptive training. Within our lab, interoceptive trait prediction error has been used to predict states of anxiety in autistic adults. There is also emerging research conceptualising interoceptive mismatches potentially playing a role in fatigue. Our aim was to run a feasibility study assessing the tolerability of Floatation-REST for participants with disabling fatigue. We also aimed to establish the feasibility of gathering data on mechanistic measures, such as heart rate variability (HRV) and interoception, during floatation. Methods Participants were recruited via online advertisements and were screened to check they scored at least 36 on the Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS). Pertinent medication changes and previous float experience within the last 6 weeks were amongst the exclusion criteria. Baseline measures included: Modified Fatigue Impact Scale (MFIS); Body Perception Questionaire; hypermobility questionnaire and Tellegen Absorption Scale. Participants completed four 90 minute sessions of floatation-REST across a 2–6 week period with 1 week of ecological momentary sampling (EMS) before and after. Immediate pre and post float measures included testing interoceptive sensibility, accuracy and awareness. HRV was measured during floatation. Change in energy was measured by retrospective subjective assessment, changes in validated fatigue scales and EMS. Results Baseline MFIS scores (median = 67.5; range = 55–77) indicated a high degree of severity of participant fatigue. 15 participants were recruited to the study. 13 participants started the float intervention and 11 completed all four sessions. No drop out was due to poor tolerability. Most adverse events were mild, expected and related to the pre/post float testing. HRV data was successfully captured throughout all sessions. Participant surveys described improvements in energy levels, sleep and relaxation and 73% “strongly agreed” to an overall positive effect. Furthermore, both statistically and clinically significant reductions were noted in the mean FSS scores (56.9 to 52.6; p = 0.044) and the MFIS scores (67.0 to 56.4; p = 0.003). Detailed energy assessment was obtained by EMS with 37 to 86 data points per participant. Conclusion Floatation-REST appears to be a feasible intervention for people with severe fatigue. EMS, HRV data, interoceptive data and other measures were reliably recorded. Reported subjective benefits were supported by an improvement in objective fatigue scores, though the lack of a control group makes these improvements speculative at present.
Aims Little is known about the use of the Mental Health Act (MHA) in children and young people (CYP). There is some evidence that having a diagnosis of psychosis or substance misuse disorder, having an intellectual disability, being older and being of black ethnicity are associated with involuntary admission. However, the existing literature is limited and relies on retrospective case note review or surveys based on a small number of sites over short periods of time. We investigated the social and clinical factors associated with MHA use in CYP using electronic health records. We hypothesised that older adolescence, psychosis, more severe illness, the presence of risk to others and Black ethnicity would be associated with involuntary admission under the MHA. Methods Using data from the Clinical Record Interactive Search (CRIS) system for South London and the Maudsley (SLaM) services we identified 2165 CYP under 18 years, with a first admission to inpatient units between 2007 and 2021 with complete data on variables of interest; 1638 (75.7%) were voluntary patients for the duration of the admission and 527 (25.3%) had been detained under a section 2 or 3 of the MHA during the admission. We conducted univariable logistic regression to investigate the association between clinical factors (diagnosis, severity of illness, risk) and social factors (gender, age, ethnicity, deprivation) with the outcome i.e. MHA admission. We then conducted multivariable logistic regression to investigate the association between the clinical and social factors and involuntary admission. Results In multivariable analyses we found evidence that a diagnosis of psychosis (OR 2.63, 95% CI 1.83–3.76, p &lt; 0.001), being older (age 13–15 years: OR 5.88, 95% CI 3.46–10.03, p &lt; 0.001; age 16–17 years: OR 6.72, 95% CI 3.97–11.41, p &lt; 0.001), having a developmental disorder (OR 1.60, 95% CI 1.04–2.47, p = 0.033) and being of Black ethnicity (OR 2.14, 95% CI 1.60–2.89, p &lt; 0.001) were associated with involuntary admission after accounting for other factors. Being less impaired (i.e. a higher CGAS score) was associated with a lower odds of involuntary admission (moderate impairment: OR 0.56, 95% CI 0.42–0.74, p &lt; 0.001; lowest impairment: OR 0.41, 95% CI 0.30–0.54, p &lt; 0.001). Conclusion In this large cohort of child and adolescent inpatients from South East London, we found that CYP of Black ethnicity are more likely than those from White groups to have an involuntary than voluntary psychiatric hospitalisation, after adjusting for social and clinical factors relating to admission. The finding that Black CYP are more than twice as likely to experience involuntary admission is in keeping with prior literature in CYP and the adult literature. This racial inequity requires further investigation to address disparities in access to mental health care and application of the MHA.
Aims There is evidence that children and young people (CYP) of Black ethnicity are more likely to experience involuntary hospital admission. This is not explained by clinical and sociodemographic factors. One possible explanation are differences in pathways into, and/or use of mental health services (MHS). This study investigates the associations between ethnicity, pathways into MHS, MHS use and involuntary hospitalisation in CYP. Methods Using data from the Clinical Record Interactive Search (CRIS) system for (South London and the Maudsley) SLaM services we identified 652 CYP under 18 years admitted to inpatient units between 2008 and 2021 living within the SLaM catchment; 458 (70.2%) were admitted informally and 194 (29.7%) were detained. We conducted univariable logistic regression to investigate the association between pathways into MHS (referral source, S.136 presentation), MHS use (time known to services, recent appointment prior to admission, and presence of a care plan), clinical factors (diagnosis, severity, risk) and social factors (gender, age, ethnicity, deprivation) with the outcome i.e. involuntary admission. We then conducted multivariable logistic regression to investigate the association between the clinical and social factors and involuntary admission. Results In multivariable analyses we found evidence that adverse pathways into MHS such as S.136 presentation (OR 6.25, 95%CI 2.06-19.01, p = 0.001), and referrals from social services (OR 4.92, 95%CI 1.49-16.19, p = 0.009) and police/legal services (OR 4.22, 95%CI 1.03-17.31, p = 0.045) were associated with involuntary hospitalisation. There was no evidence that the duration of contact with MHS, having had an appointment in the 28 days prior to admission or a care plan in the 12 months prior to admission were associated with involuntary hospitalisation after adjusting for other factors. There was evidence that being of Black ethnicity (OR 2.04, 95%CI 1.19-3.50, p = 0.010), older age (13–15 years: OR 4.46, 95%CI 1.57-12.72, p = 0.005; age 16–17 years: OR 8.67, 95%CI 3.08-24.41, p &lt; 0.001) and having a diagnosis of a psychotic disorder (OR 4.21, 95%CI 2.21-8.02, p &lt; 0.001) were associated with involuntary admission after accounting for pathways into and use of MHS. Conclusion In this cohort of child and adolescent inpatients living in South East London, we found that CYP who experience adverse pathways into MHS are more likely to experience involuntary hospitalisation. Prior contact with MHS did not appear to influence involuntary admission. We found that Black CYP remained more than twice as likely to be admitted involuntarily after accounting for MHS use and pathways into MHS as well as social and clinical factors.
Aims This study aims to explore the experiences of autistic adults who were previously diagnosed with Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD). Methods This interpretive phenomenological study aims to explore the experiences of autistic adults who were previously diagnosed with BPD. Data were collected using sixty-minute, one-to-one, virtual, semi-structured interviews. The audio-recordings of the interviews were transcribed and analysed using an interpretive phenomenological analysis. Results Participants had autistic features since childhood which went unnoticed. Camouflaging, gender and lack of awareness of the spectrum nature of autism had contributed to missing autism in childhood. The commonality of trauma, suicidality and self-harm, in the context of wider systemic issues, resulted in participants receiving a diagnosis of BPD. It was revealed that the diagnosis of BPD was readily given and inappropriately disclosed. This diagnosis was emotionally damaging for participants and highly stigmatising. Treatment for BPD was inadequate, ineffective, and distressing. There were several negative impacts of the BPD label, including diagnostic overshadowing. Participants felt that misdiagnosis is preventable with various measures. Autism diagnoses were difficult to obtain in adulthood, but receipt of one was beneficial for participants in various ways. However, participants felt there was a need for more autism awareness and autism-friendly services. Conclusion The BPD label in autistic people can be harmful to their physical, mental and social health. In contrast, an autism diagnosis in adulthood can be beneficial despite the multiple barriers in receiving such diagnosis. Misdiagnosis is preventable by training clinicians, screening risk groups and developing dedicated autism services.
AimsDiabetes mellitus (DM) is a chronic disorder of insulin and glucose metabolism. It affects more than 463 million people worldwide and is expected to reach 700 million by 2045. In the Southeast Asian region, the prevalence of DM has tripled to 115 million due to rapid urbanization, unhealthy diet, sedentary lifestyles, and genetic factors. In Nepal, a developing country, DM affects 8.5% of adults, with an alarming increase in recent years. Lack of diabetes education and limited populational adoption of behavioural changes further hamper care.MethodsIn the present study, we performed a scoping review to determine the status of awareness, attitudes, and knowledge about diabetes in the Nepalese population with a focus on the educational initiatives that have been implemented. We also conducted a two-week international case study discussion among medical students to brainstorm viable intervention strategies.ResultsOur findings indicate that limited data is available on the level of education or initiatives to improve knowledge and practice among healthcare professionals and community members. Targeted studies of people with diabetes also present heterogeneous results due to differences in the sample population, geographic location, education, age, and gender. Accordingly, we propose five interrelated education-based strategies that leverage existing networks to expand community outreach and engagement, improve system resilience, and improve health outcomes.ConclusionsEffective education for healthcare professionals, community, and patients with diabetes is vital in improving diabetes outcomes in Nepal and South Asia. Collaboration, funding, and evaluation are key areas needing reform.
Airborne particulate matter (PM) is of great concern in the modern-day atmosphere owing to its association with a variety of health impacts, such as respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. Of the various size fractions of PM, it is the finer fractions that are most harmful to health, in particular ultrafine particles (PM0.1; UFPs), with an aerodynamic diameter ≤ 100 nm. The smaller size fractions, of ≤2.5 µm (PM2.5; fine particles) and ≤0.1 µm (PM0.1; ultrafine particles), have been shown to have numerous linkages to negative health effects; however, their collection/sampling remains challenging. This review paper employed a comprehensive literature review methodology; 200 studies were evaluated based on the rigor of their methodologies, including the validity of experimental designs, data collection methods, and statistical analyses. Studies with robust methodologies were prioritised for inclusion. This review paper critically assesses the health risks associated with fine and ultrafine particles, highlighting vehicular emissions as the most significant source of particulate-related health effects. While coal combustion, diesel exhaust, household wood combustors’ emissions, and Earth’s crust dust also pose health risks, evidence suggests that exposure to particulates from vehicular emissions has the greatest impact on human health due to their widespread distribution and contribution to air pollution-related diseases. This article comprehensively examines current sampling technologies, specifically focusing on the collection and sampling of ultrafine particles (UFP) from ambient air to facilitate toxicological and physiochemical characterisation efforts. This article discusses diverse approaches to collect fine and ultrafine particulates, along with experimental endeavours to assess ultrafine particle concentrations across various microenvironments. Following meticulous evaluation of sampling techniques, high-volume air samplers such as the Chem Vol Model 2400 High Volume Cascade Impactor and low-volume samplers like the Personal Cascade Impactor Sampler (PCIS) emerge as effective methods. These techniques offer advantages in particle size fractionation, collection efficiency, and adaptability to different sampling environments, positioning them as valuable tools for precise characterisation of particulate matter in air quality research and environmental monitoring.
Among the tumour suppressor genes that affect critically cell functions and homeostasis, phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted in chromosome 10 (PTEN- gene locus: 10q21) regulates the PI3K/Akt/mTOR signalling pathway. PTEN is deleted, mutated or epigenetically hyper-methylated in a variety of human solid malignancies. Salivary gland carcinomas (SGCs) belong to the head and neck carcinomas (HNCs) super category of solid malignancies. Histo-pathologically, they demonstrate a significant diversity due to a variety of distinct and mixed subtypes. Genetically, they are characterized by a broad spectrum of gene and chromosomal imbalances. Referring specifically to suppressor genes, PTEN deregulation plays a critical role in signaling transduction in the corresponding SGC pre- and malignant epithelia modifying the response rates to potential targeted therapeutic strategies. In the current review, we explored the role of PTEN deregulation mechanisms that are involved in the onset and progression of SGCs.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the gradual death of motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord, leading to fatal paralysis. Socioeconomic status (SES) is a measure of an individual's shared economic and social status, which has been shown to have an association with health outcomes. Understanding the impact of SES on health conditions is crucial, as it can influence and be influenced by health-related variables. The role of socioeconomic status in influencing the risk and progression of ALS has not been established, and understanding the various factors that impact ALS is important in developing strategies for treatment and prevention. To investigate this relationship, we recruited 413 participants with definite, probable, or possible ALS according to the El Escorial criteria, from three tertiary centers in London, Sheffield, and Birmingham. Logistic regression was used to examine the association between case-control status, socioeconomic criteria, and ALS risk. Linear regression was used to examine the association between age of onset and socioeconomic variables. Two sensitivity analyses were performed, one using an alternative occupational classifier, and the other using Mendelian Randomization analysis to examine association. There was no significant relationship between any variables and ALS risk. We found an inverse relationship between mean lifetime salary and age of ALS onset (Beta = −0.157, p = 0.011), but no effect of education or occupation on the age of onset. The finding was confirmed in both sensitivity analyses and in Mendelian Randomization. We find that a higher salary is associated with a younger age of ALS onset taking into account sex, occupation, years of education, and clinical presentation.
An abstract is not available for this content. As you have access to this content, full HTML content is provided on this page. A PDF of this content is also available in through the ‘Save PDF’ action button.
An accurate prediction of house prices is a fundamental requirement for various sectors including real estate and mortgage lending. It is widely recognized that a property value is not solely determined by its physical attributes but is significantly influenced by its surrounding neighbourhood. Meeting the diverse housing needs of individuals while balancing budget constraints is a primary concern for real estate developers. To this end, we addressed the house price prediction problem as a regression task and thus employed various machine learning techniques capable of expressing the significance of independent variables. We made use of the housing dataset of Ames City in Iowa, USA to compare support vector regressor, random forest regressor, XGBoost, multilayer perceptron and multiple linear regression algorithms for house price prediction. Afterwards, we identified the key factors that influence housing costs. Our results show that XGBoost is the best performing model for house price prediction.
Anaerobic digestion biogas plants generate large amounts of digestate that cannot always be valorised as fertilizer. This study proposes an alternative use through pyrolysis of the digestate for the production of liquid fuels for compression ignition engines. The digestate pyrolysis oil (DPO) and two types of biodiesel were produced and mixed with different alcohols. A total of five blends of DPO, biodiesel and alcohol were prepared and characterized, showing that their acidity and viscosity were higher than for pure diesel, and their heating value was lower. Blends containing 60 % biodiesel, 20 % DPO, and 20 % butanol were then tested in an engine, showing that the maximum in-cylinder pressure and heat release rate were 4.6 % and 3 % lower, respectively, compared to diesel, and the engine thermal efficiency at full load was 6–8% lower. The nitric oxide and smoke emissions were 7 % and 40 % lower, respectively, but the carbon dioxide emissions were 7–10 % higher than with diesel. The blends showed retarded start of combustion by 1.5° crank angle, which delays the ignition by about 6.4 %. This study concludes that blends can be used as a fuel for agriculture and marine diesel engines, although their viscosity should be reduced by improving the pyrolysis conditions.
Antibiotic resistance (ABR) is a major public health issue, associated with increased patient morbidity and mortality globally, with significantly higher rates in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Assessment of contextual factors, such as information, education, infrastructure and regulations are important for developing local solutions against ABR.
Anton Eberhard and Wikus Kruger (Eds.), Renewable Energy Auctions: Lessons from the Global South. Oxford University Press. 2023. 512 pp. £100.00 (hbk). ISBN: 978-0192871701. £66.66 (ebk). ISBN: 978-0191967931. Pablo Del Río and Mario Ragwitz (Eds.), Handbook on the Economics of Renewable Energy. £215.00 (hbk). ISBN: 978-1800379015. From £48.00 (ebk). ISBN: 978-1800379022. Georges Hathry, Renewable Energies: The Stakes for Your Company. What does Your Company Gain from Using Renewable Energy? Our Knowledge Publishing. 2023. 76 pp. $48.00 (pbk). ISBN: 978-6206326922. In the latest COP 28 UN Climate Change Conference held in December 2023 in United Arab Emirates, signatory countries promised a transition from carbon energy sources "in a just, orderly and equitable manner" (UNFCC, 2023) to mitigate, accordingly, the worst effects of climate change, and reach net zero carbon emissions by 2050. In the history of COP summits, though vague with respect to how and when the transition will happen, the latest UN conference set a precedent in affirming the necessity of reducing the use of fossil fuels. (Though, notably, China and India, representing more than one-third of the world's population, did not sign the pledge to triple their output of renewable energy and committed to coal power instead.) Researchers from policy institutes, leading academic institutions and elsewhere have devoted significant effort to explaining the economic benefits transitioning to 'renewable' energy and pursuing the commitments made under the auspices of the UN climate change agreements. Monographs and compendiums as well offer advice on how to navigate and benefit from the transition. Some works address legal and regulatory issues such as Promoting Renewable Energy: The Mutual Supportiveness of Climate and Trade Law (Monti, 2023) or focus upon technical and engineering matters as in Fundamentals and Applications of Renewable Energy (Kanoglu et al., 2023). Looking at each of these themes in turn, we begin with the popular concept of energy security. Energy security is a recurring theme in the design of energy policy even though there is no consensus on how it should be measured or achieved, or on the relevant time frame over which it should be assessed. Ever since petroleum became critical to modern economic life, people have been concerned about whether its supply was 'secure' and would be fairly priced. Of late, such perennial concerns have been used to support renewable energy, but what 'security' precisely involves is uncertain. There are many interesting metrics and indices purporting to measure energy security. It may involve the ratio of domestic supply to domestic consumption, looking at resource estimates or metrics related to economic structure such as producer concentration, energy intensiveness and market conditions. Distinct disciplines, as well, use different metrics. We have the accessibility perspective originating in political science; the availability perspective using geologic and scientific insights; and the affordability perspective with its roots in financial economics (Cherp & Jewell, 2011). According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), energy security signifies "the uninterrupted availability of energy sources at an affordable price".1 Questioning the validity of energy market insecurity, using historical data and the statistical insights of financial option theory, some authors have argued that petroleum markets are remarkably robust and flexible, and perform well even during 'crises' (Haar & Haar, 2019). Concerns over security are unwarranted and reliance upon imports is not problematic (Robinson, 2007). As we saw recently when Russia invaded Ukraine, prices did not exceed previous highs, markets cleared without excess demand and supply. Though there many perspectives on the concept of energy security, and concerns over it may be arguably unjustified, a common theme running through the renewable energy research and advocacy found in the publications under review is that energy markets are inherently insecure, but renewable energy will address this problem.2 George Hathry opens his work by claiming that both companies and countries will enhance energy security through renewable energy. This claim is also made in the collection edited by Pablo Del Río and Mario Ragwitz (p. 3.) Similarly, in the work edited and authored by Anton Eberhard and Wikus Kruger various authors claim that only through private investment in renewable energy can the energy insecurity of the nations of the Global South be addressed (p. 2.). Further, it is argued that Brazil can address insecurity in electricity supply through renewable energy (p. 290), even though it has 16,172,000 million cubic feet (mmcf) of gas reserves and produces 3.3 million barrels per day (mmbd) of oil; or that Namibia can address its insecurity of electricity supply through displacing imported electricity from South Africa or imported petroleum or natural gas with renewable energy (p. 405) even though Angola, its northern neighbour has 9,711,000 mmcf of gas reserves and produces 1.4 mmbd of oil. Further, in 2021 the Canadian firm Reconnaissance Africa discovered in Namibia 120 billion barrels of oil in the Kango basin. Argentina has 11,142,000 mmcf of natural gas and produces over half a million barrels of oil per day (mmbd) while Brazil has 16,172,000 mmcf of gas reserves and produces 3.3 mmbd of oil. The premise of the proposition that renewable energy is a means of addressing supply insecurity is dubious: most countries are net importers of petroleum, as it is critical to energy and the petrochemical sectors of modern economies, and the global 100 mmbd market is remarkably flexible. Though the purpose of sanctions against Russia was to reduce its revenues from petroleum, with the unintended consequences that its discounted Urals crude went east while Europe found new sources, the events attest to the depth and liquidity of the market. The countries of the Global South that Eberhard and Kruger focus on have bountiful access and supplies of hydrocarbons. International energy markets are not 'insecure' as renewable energy advocates claim; and replacing low-cost imported energy or domestically produced hydrocarbons with expensive renewable energy, as explained below, conflicts with the received economic theory of trade. That energy may be imported does not make it 'insecure', and replacing it through renewable energy may not be economic.3 Although a scenario in which China stops exporting solar PV panels appears remote, we should remember that generating electricity in this manner, like relying upon wind turbines, involves international trade in energy intensive, globally sourced materials.4 Not surprisingly, in all three works we find the theme that transitioning to renewable energy will help the environment by reducing GHG. Georges Hathry begins with this message, as do Pablo Del Río and Mario Ragwitz, whose introductory chapter tells us that satisfying the Paris Agreement of 2015 and achieving sustainable development goals requires transformation of our global energy production and consumption system. In Eberhard and Kruger's collection, the role of the Global South in reducing GHG is a recurring theme. In the eight countries examined – Brazil, Chile, Argentina, Mexico, India, South Africa, Zambia, and Namibia – the respective authors, as area experts, explain how private investment and market mechanisms may be used to reduce CO2 emissions, demonstrating commitment to the various COP objectives. Excluding India from the examined countries in the Eberhard and Kruger collection, the CO2 emissions of the other seven countries sum to less than 4.5 per cent of global CO2.5 Even the United Kingdom, with the sixth-largest GDP, contributes only 1 per cent to global CO2. Though it may appear meritorious to act locally while imagining a global impact, the facts are not supportive. Arguably, the alternative to 'free riding' should be global cooperation. For countries of the Global South covered in Eberhard and Kruger's work, investing in renewable energy will have no measurable impact upon atmospheric CO2 or prevent climate change. If the incentives and subsidies being offered to developing countries to adopt renewable technologies in general were instead directed to the world's most-emitting sectors, there would be greater CO2 reduction at a lower cost. A global agreement on the taxation of CO2 might be one approach (Shackleton, 2020), and, in contrast to technology-specific incentives, taxing carbon ensures that firms and sectors with the lowest costs of abatement act first. In contrast, offering incentives for renewable energy, grid-level battery storage or carbon sequestration involves governments picking winners – Hayek's 'pretence of knowledge'. Moreover, disaggregating the effects of policies from general economic trends is challenging and assumption-intensive (Moutinho et al., 2015). Perhaps these authors should recall the observation of the late Professor Milton Friedman: "One of the great mistakes is to judge policies and programs by their intentions rather than their results."6 Apart from achieving COP objectives, the economic case for investing in renewable energy in the Global South remains questionable especially given its minuscule contribution to global CO2. Even in Europe, independently pursuing COP objectives may appear environmentally virtuous, but is devoid of economic common sense. Altogether, it echoes Marx's mantra: 'From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs.' From pre-industrial times to the 1950s, global levels of atmospheric CO2 hovered around 300 parts per million or 0.03 per cent of the atmosphere. It has now grown to around 400 parts per million or 0.04 per cent of the atmosphere. Though CO2, as a by-product of the chemical reaction known as combustion, was never a concern until it was associated with climate change, the replacement of technologies using fossil fuels with renewable energy technologies is commonly portrayed as a 'win-win', that is, the costs of climate change are averted, and it is better and cheaper than fossil fuels. In all three works, in both presumptions and overt claims, it is argued that the cost of energy will be reduced through reliance upon solar PV and wind-turbine generated electricity. Hathry makes this claim in his chapter 3. Eberhard and Kruger's collection tells us that the reliance upon market mechanisms has facilitated investment and provided cost-efficient electricity tariffs for the provision of clean, renewably generated electricity. According to the authors in the Eberhard and Kruger collection, the criterion for successful implementation of renewable energy is that an independent power project is built and achieves 'commercial' operation in a timely manner and offers a low, competitive price of electricity, critically defined using the metric of the IEA and the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA). The indirect 'ancillary' costs of providing system balancing and backup as well as network costs are mentioned along with their inevitable 'socialisation', that is, the impact upon consumers, but considered in depth. According to the various contributors, renewable energy is successful if the agreed tariff price is similar to or slightly below the Levelized Cost of Energy (LCOE) of the relevant technology, that is, wind turbines or solar.7 But does this criterion measure ensure economic merit? Properly, the use of this criterion ensures only that the prices received by investors–developers of renewable energy reflect their respective costs including an adequate return to capital; it does not imply that such a price will be cheaper, the same as, or more expensive than other forms of electricity generation, like dispatchable fossil-fuel plants or nuclear (US EIA, 2022). To elaborate, while renewable energy is often presented as competitive with fossil-fuel-fired electricity generation, this assertion confuses price per installed megawatt with price per megawatt hour, as determined through the aforementioned LCOE calculation. Remember, though its 'fuel' is free, the significant capital requirements are not. Moreover, even in sunny Africa or Brazil, solar PV does not work at night. In most parts of the world, on-shore wind operates approximately one-quarter of the time and off-shore wind about a third of the time. For heuristic purposes, if we assume a weighted capacity average of 25 per cent, we might imagine that constructing four times capacity would yield nearly the same output of one gas-fired turbine normally operating at a typical load factor of 90 per cent. The observation, however, assumes zero correlation between the four sites. Weather patterns are not uncorrelated, requiring instead that one might need a sixfold investment in wind or solar renewable capacity to generate as much electricity as a single gas turbine of the same megawatts. So, while the price of installed capacity has fallen for renewable technology, an LCOE-type calculation of dividing the cost of capacity by the number of hours to reach an average cost, shows that renewable energy is not cheap. Even with Pigouvian-style taxation of CO2 and other effluents, if it were technologically superior to dispatchable plant like combined-cycle gas turbines and ultra-supercritical coal, debating how it should be supported would be a moot issue. Comparing LCOE of various forms of generation, however, does not tell the whole story of their respective merits. Though the authors of the Eberhard and Kruger collection acknowledge the indirect costs of renewable energy investment and that such costs may be 'socialised' (that is, paid for by consumers), the matter is given limited attention. It cannot be ignored, however. In the Del Río and Ragwitz collection, such topics are explored in depth. In chapter 2, titled 'The Costs and Benefits of the Energy Transition', by Barbara Breitschopf, Julia Panny and Anne Held, we have a detailed analysis and explanation of why renewable energy has huge indirect costs. Further, in chapter 8, titled 'The Grid Costs of Renewable Energy Deployment', by Joan Batalla-Bejerano, Daniel Davi-Arderius and Elisa Trujillo-Baute, we find a detailed explanation and analysis of the infrastructure needed to make renewable energy generation workable. We learn that, as a highly distributed form of electricity generation, it requires vast investment in transmission cables estimated to cost for overhead lines approximately £600,000 per kilometre, ignoring life-cycle costs. Further, it requires fossil-fuel plants idling at minimum stable generation to be dispatchable when the wind-generated output fails and the sun does not shine. In the UK, according to the energy regulator Ofgem, the non-wholesale cost component of retail energy prices now exceeds 71 per cent.8 The costs of random intermittency associated with renewable technologies cannot be overestimated. Argentina has 2,534 hours per year of sunshine; 71 per cent of the time it is either night or under cloud cover. India has 2,361; 73 per cent of the time it is either night or under cloud cover. Even in Zambia, 68 per cent of the time cloud and nightfall may render solar PV infrastructure useless. Though it may be observed that in parts of Africa and India renewable energy will be a primary source of electricity without grid-level backup, making it cheaper, it is still hard to imagine anyone being satisfied with an intermittent and unpredictable supply. While in Argentina, South Africa and Brazil consumers living in urbanised areas expect reliable supply, renewable energy will require fossil-fuel backup or massive investment in grid-level storage, both of which impose huge social costs.9 Turning to Europe, it has been estimated that providing dispatchable backup to intermittent renewable energy is costing tens of billions of euros per annum (Haar & Haar, 2017). According to recently published data by the IEA at the University of Cologne, Germany faces a €60 billion funding gap in its support for renewable energy and will need to spend about €10 billion of that on new gas-fired and hydrogen backup plants when low wind speeds or clouds keep windmills and solar panels from contributing to the grid. Further, for Germany, the social costs of reaching net zero by 2030 are estimated to reach €1.9 trillion, or €240 billion per year.10 To summarise, only one of the three publications provides realistic insights into what transitioning to renewable generation of electricity will cost. 'Socialisation' of indirect costs may sound inoffensive, but when one quantifies the facts the case for using renewables to decarbonise electricity generation is undermined, especially in the lower- and middle-income countries of the Global South. From a democratic governance perspective, one wonders how citizens of the Global South would respond if they were canvassed on the trade-offs in transitioning to renewable energy. As we have witnessed in the world's most advanced economies, since the Industrial Revolution economic growth has been supported through inexpensive fossil fuels. Viewed comprehensively, the cost of energy will not be reduced through reliance upon solar PV and wind-turbine-generated electricity, and reliance upon it in developing countries will not make them richer. If it were economic to generate electricity using renewable technology rather than natural gas, petroleum or coal, it would not need policy advocacy; businesses do not require incentives to pursue profits. Reflecting the widespread transition to the privatisation of electricity generation from state-owned utilities and the use of market forces to deliver reliable and affordable electricity, in all three works reviewed a large role is accorded to private investors and capital in achieving the transition to wind and solar renewable-electricity generation. Hathry targets private entities and addresses how renewable energy projects may be undertaken at firm level. He discusses how to measure energy consumption and the potential savings from renewable energy. Unsurprisingly, the public relations benefits of using and generating renewable energy are also emphasised. A case study in Hathry's work of the major French conglomerate the Bollore Group demonstrates the alleged benefits in this regard. Lacking, however, in Hathry's work are the larger financial-economic as well as macro insights. It may look good to customers for a firm to signal its virtue of being conscientiously green, but how could higher energy prices really be good for stakeholders if it increases costs? The ultimate incidence must impact consumers, shareholders and employees. Further, we have the burden of the indirect costs of renewably generated electricity, as already explained. In most cases firms are receiving tax credits, subsidies, and other inducements to use or adopt renewable energy. Such incentives have a cost: a subsidy for one entity means higher taxes for another entity. Such incentives may have misallocative effects, directing capital in a suboptimal manner. Commenting upon the upcoming Davos Meeting, the President and CEO of Huntsman Corporation, a publicly traded petrochemical manufacturer, said "the pursuit of green energy is leading to the rapid de-industrialisation of Europe" (Huntsman, 2024). The German think tank Agora Energiewende (2024) reported that the fall in Europe's CO2 output is primarily due to deindustrialisation. Promoting one's green credentials might yield positive public perceptions, but the costs lead to economic stagnation. Major European car makers have already voiced concerns that the battery-powered vehicle will be the death of the domestic car industry (Fairless, 2024). In addition, Hathry's perspective ignores the impact upon consumers. Higher prices for domestic energy and transportation reduce the purchasing power of consumers, which cannot be good for businesses. Discretionary consumer purchases such as clothing, hospitality, entertainment have been affected by higher energy prices. In the UK thousands of pubs have shut their doors, blaming the cost of heating (Cobham, 2024). Taking a general equilibrium perspective, apart from the direct beneficiaries of renewable energy investments such as investors earning low-risk subsidised returns, through altering relative prices from their natural opportunity cost and directing capital to where it would not go without incentives, the promotion of renewable energy must have a net negative impact to a country. Even arguments with respect to job creation through renewable energy require major qualifications (Stanef-Puica et al., 2022). Chapter 7 in the Del Río and Ragwitz collection ('Green Jobs in the Spanish Renewable Energy Sector: An Input-Output Approach' by Manuel Tomás, Ignacio Cazcarro, Julen Montilla, Cristina Pizarro-Irizar and Iñaki Arto) shows the challenges of measuring the employment impact of renewable energy programmes. Simple mantras claiming that supporting renewable energy will create 'green jobs' are not useful. Like many targeted government programmes, identifying the cohort of beneficiaries is easier than showing the widespread negative impact upon contributors and payers. Cynically, such benefits are transitory while the costs, like deindustrialisation and impoverishment, are persistent, difficult to measure and beyond the election cycle. Though Hathry's observations are of a general nature, the focus of the many authors in the Eberhard and Kruger collection is on how the use of energy auctions may encourage private investors in renewable energy, particularly in the nations of the Global South. Covering Brazil, Chile, Argentina, Mexico, India, South Africa, Zambia and Namibia, the respective authors, as area experts, provide detailed and well-explained information on the design, implementation, and outcomes of renewable energy auctions in each of these important locations. Each country-specific chapter provides a mixture of facts, casual empiricism and contextual information on the structure and performance of the existing power generation sector. The detailed information is generously supported by excellent graphs, tables and other exhibits, giving the reader useful insights into how each of these countries sought to address inadequate electricity supply through reliance upon market mechanisms and private capital. The information supplied and observations made do not demonstrate the economic rationality of these investment programmes. From this work, we learn that renewable energy auctions have become the main approach to contracting utility-scale renewable energy projects. The recent history of auction markets in Latin America, sub-Saharan Africa, and India are appraised and analysed with the aim of improving how they are designed and implemented globally. In each country the focus is on policy choices including how the auction was implemented, what institutions were involved and how the procurement process was undertaken. After decades of reliance upon state-owned or parastatal entities, for all these countries turning to the private sector to supply electricity and relying upon a market mechanism to set the price was a watershed. As a natural monopoly suitable for either public ownership or regulated private ownership, there was a history of antipathy to using the private sector to supply electricity and a market mechanism to set prices. As we learn from Eberhard and Kruger's collection, in some countries private investment focusing upon renewable energy was intended to address chronic load-shedding and deficient performance of the established state-owned monopoly. In India, we discover that the auction process initially was complicated by the autonomy of India's state authorities, but eventually the ambitions to reduce the cost of renewable energy, to attract investors and have projects completed in a timely manner were successful. Facilitating India's programme was the socialisation of direct and indirect system support cost; rather than imposing such costs upon developers, a 'plug-and-play' option for developers: government agencies provided land and transmission connection. In some countries, conditions were already favourable to using private capital and auctions to facilitate renewable energy development; in other countries, new laws, regulations and institution were required. In Chile, we learn that the combination of a positive business climate, low country risk, low non-payment rates and a supportive regulatory system helped to protect revenue streams to suppliers. With advanced capital markets and economic sophistication, successful auctions of the right to build and generate renewable electricity in South Africa should have been straightforward, but attracting private sector investment faced several obstacles. Though South Africa had been the regional leader in renewable energy auctions, establishing the Independent Power Producer Programme in late 2010 to address chronic power shortages as well as demonstrating commitment to UN Climate Change Conference (COP 15), its site selection process was cumbersome and costly for unsuccessful bidders. Further, its compliance programme was complicated while bidder ranking and winner selection was insufficiently transparent, discouraging investors from future rounds. In countries such as Brazil and Mexico, major structural reforms of the electricity sector, including vertical unbundling of supply from transmission and distribution, were needed to provide suitable and attractive conditions for private investors. In Mexico, an energy regulator was created along with a market operator, and the state-owned utility was segmented into independent entities overseeing various parts of the value chain. In Argentina, the long history of economic instability and institutional fragility presented obstacles necessitating the creation of trust fund by the World Bank to mitigate financial risk to investors. It was successful in facilitating auctions until the crash of 2018 proved it was insufficient to protect investors from sovereign risk. In Namibia, starting from a complete absence of private sector involvement in electricity supply as of 2015, tangible progress was made using innovative financial structures developed by the Standard Bank to lend in the local currency, shielding investors from foreign exchange-rate risk. In neighbouring Zambia, an innovative approach to auction design was used to mitigate key risks and build trust among potential investors. In sum, from the collection we learn that renewable energy auctions have become the dominant method for contracting utility-scale renewable energy projects, in large part due to the 'cost-efficient' tariffs secured through this method. Relying upon private capital and market mechanisms, progress in renewable energy by the countries of the Global South has been remarkable, but does this tell the entire story? While these countries have used a market mechanism to encourage renewable energy investment and relied upon the private sector to build renewable generation, often using the LCOE for renewables as a benchmark for setting prices of renewables, this does not necessarily demonstrate sound economics. The authors in the Eberhard and Kruger collection avoid the salient issue of whether promoting renewable energy, even using market mechanisms, favours prosperity, growth and development. In seeking guidance from this publication, policymakers should reflect carefully. Though encouraging investment in renewable energy through auctions supports achieving COP 15 objectives, the authors in the Eberhard and Kruger collection ignore the issue of whether it supports long-term economic growth and development in their respective economies. Does it build wealth or just encourage rent-seeking? In addition to gas-fired generation being cheaper when considered comprehensively, the geography and geology of these countries makes one wonder why they should pursue renewable energy, if not for achieving UN sustainable development goals or finding favour with NGOs. Argentina, as mentioned, has huge exploitable natural gas and oil reserves. So does Brazil.11 Mexico produces over 1.7 mmbd of oil and ranks just ahead of Brazil in having 16,549,000 mmcf of gas reserves. Angola, the northern neighbour of Namibia, has 9,711,000 mmcf of gas reserves and produces 1.4 mmbd of oil. Though Zambia has a tiny oil and gas industry, its neighbour Mozambique is estimated to have 100 million mmcf of gas reserves, ranking 14th in the world. Altogether, the plentiful supply of hydrocarbons suitable for gas-fired electricity generation, either within or available from neighbouring countries, raises the question of whether unreliable distributed generation of electricity makes sense. The LCOE may be comparable, but it still requires massive investment in transmission and distribution infrastructure as well as dispatchable backup. For long-term economic growth, would renewable energy in the countries of the Global South, or anywhere for that matter, make sense if we were not concerned with the impact of using fossil fuels to generate electricity? While all the authors in Eberhard and Kruger's collection acknowledge that renewable energy has ancillary and network costs, they all seem complacent about the above concerns. Yes, according to Deason (2018) in a meta-analysis of 45 peer-reviewed studies on the impact of renewable energy, 34 found that full reliance upon renewable energy would increase electricity prices between 41 per cent and 104 per cent. More broadly, according to Alex Epstein (2021), replacing fossil fuels with renewable energy will condemn much of the developing world to eternal poverty. Apart from achieving COP objectives, the economic case for pursuing renewable energy in the Global South remains questionable especially given its minuscule contribution to global CO2. Perhaps reflecting the level of governance and democracy, the various governments covered by Eberhard and Kruger appear committed to increasing renewable energy output without regard for the costs imposed on consumers of electricity and the long-term implications for economic growth. This also raises the question of how well the citizens of Europe and North America appreciate the negative impact of eliminating fossil fuels from electricity generation. Reflecting the commitments to the COP/renewable energy agenda, researchers from policy institutes, leading academic institutions and elsewhere have devoted great effort to explaining the economic benefits of transitioning to 'renewable' energy and pursuing the commitments made under the auspices of the UN climate change agreements. The three works reviewed here offer detailed insights and advice on how the transition may be facilitated. Intended for policymakers and academics, the two edited collections are by far the most rigorous, with the one edited by Pablo Del Río and Mario Ragwitz the most balanced, offering detailed insights into the costs of transforming how we generate electricity as well as such key topics as employment creation. The collection edited by the University of Cape Town professors Anton Eberhard and Wikus Kruger provides detailed insights into how various countries of the Global South have used market mechanisms and private capital to engender renewable investment. Notwithstanding the use of market mechanisms, whether such policies and programmes are beneficial, offering sound economics, is given limited emphasis. The shorter work of Georges Hathry has a different audience: the business executive wishing to know more about renewable energy and why his or her firm should become engaged. It is uncritical and limited in its outlook, but the case studies are interesting, providing guidance on how and why one should proceed. In sum, short of a technological breakthrough like sustainable fusion energy, these works show that the devotion to renewable energy may require more faith than rationality. Perhaps we should recall the words of the Spanish poet Miguel de Unamuno: 'Faith which does not doubt is dead faith.'
Artificial intelligence (AI) health technologies are increasingly available for use in real-world care. This emerging opportunity is accompanied by a need for decision makers and practitioners across healthcare systems to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of these interventions against the needs of their own setting. To meet this need, high-quality evidence regarding AI-enabled interventions must be made available, and decision makers in varying roles and settings must be empowered to evaluate that evidence within the context in which they work. This article summarizes good practices across four stages of evidence generation for AI health technologies: study design, study conduct, study reporting, and study appraisal.
Asymmetric minimal receptors based on 4-nitrophenylurea, 1, and 4-nitrophenylthiourea, 2, were shown to bind a range of anions and are deprotonated by both fluoride and hydroxide to give a colorimetric response. A 4-trifluoromethylphenylurea receptor, 3, was deprotonated by fluoride but not hydroxide but was not discernible by the naked eye. Deprotonation of 1 by fluoride ultimately resulted in the formation of its bicarbonate complex as determined by X-ray crystallography in agreement with DFT calculations. Fluorescence spectroscopy revealed that emission of 2 reaches a maximum at two equivalents of anions except for fluoride where it continues to increase with increasing addition of TBAF allowing 2 to give a fluoride-specific response.
At the heart of this article lies the unique question of whether feelings of (in)authenticity can act as a resource for ethical social work practice. In adopting an affirmative position, I posit that emotional labour is traceable to feeling inauthentic and that for social workers possessing a virtuous sensibility such feelings represent sites of ethical struggle. For workers who are reflectively alert to their sense of self I argue that these feelings become ethical markers for practice, offering guidance for that which is ethically just. Within this debate, the idea of virtue as being morally good is framed around an interpretation that sees it as supportive of social justice. The article thus concludes that the deliberation of feelings – of being (in)authentic – can act as a disruptive prompt for practice that could prove unjust or oppressive. Within this original discussion, conceptions of authenticity, emotional work and virtue are critically explored in relation to the self.
Background Acute severe asthma (ASA) is a leading cause of hospital attendance in children. Standard first-line therapy consists of high-dose inhaled bronchodilators plus oral corticosteroids. Treatment for children who fail to respond to first-line therapy is problematic: the use of intravenous agents is inconsistent, and side effects are frequent. High-flow humidified oxygen (HiFlo) is widely used in respiratory conditions and is increasingly being used in ASA, but with little evidence for its effectiveness. A well-designed, adequately powered randomized controlled trial (RCT) of HiFlo therapy in ASA is urgently needed, and feasibility data are required to plan such an RCT. In this study, we describe the protocol for a feasibility study designed to fill this knowledge gap. Objective This study aims to establish whether a full RCT of early HiFlo therapy in children with ASA can be conducted successfully and safely, to establish whether recruitment using deferred consent is practicable, and to define appropriate outcome measures and sample sizes for a definitive RCT. The underlying hypothesis is that early HiFlo therapy in ASA will reduce the need for more invasive treatments, allow faster recovery and discharge from hospital, and in both these ways reduce distress to children and their families. Methods We conducted a feasibility RCT with deferred consent to assess the use of early HiFlo therapy in children aged 2 to 11 years with acute severe wheeze not responding to burst therapy (ie, high-dose inhaled salbutamol with or without ipratropium). Children with a Preschool Respiratory Assessment Measure score ≥5 after burst therapy were randomized to commence HiFlo therapy or follow standard care. The candidate primary outcomes assessed were treatment failure requiring escalation and time to meet hospital discharge criteria. Patient and parent experiences were also assessed using questionnaires and telephone interviews. Results The trial was opened to recruitment in February 2020 but was paused for 15 months owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. The trial was reopened at the lead site in July 2021 and opened at the other 3 sites from August to December 2022. Recruitment was completed in June 2023. Conclusions This feasibility RCT of early HiFlo therapy in children with ASA recruited to the target despite major disturbances owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. The data are currently being analyzed and will be published separately. Trial Registration International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number Registry ISRCTN78297040; https://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN78297040 International Registered Report Identifier (IRRID) DERR1-10.2196/54081
Background and Objective: Serum bilirubin abnormalities can be caused by a range of processes including haematological, hepatic and genetic diseases. This article is a part of a special series to aid the reader in investigating and diagnosing the cause of bilirubin abnormalities. Methods: A narrative, focused literature review was performed using PubMed, OMIM and Google Scholar during December 2022 to May 2023 to identify references published from database inception to May 2023. Reference lists from identified articles were also used. Language was restricted to English. Key Content and Findings: We discuss the main aspects of bilirubin metabolism and regulation. We provide a diagnostic algorithm for the investigation of hyperbilirubinaemia for the general clinician following initial patient consultation. We offer potential causes that are to be considered in clinical context and in the context of other biochemical results to guide clinicians as to whether hyperbilirubinaemia is caused by a pre-, intra- or post-hepatic cause. We briefly discuss pregnancy associated and genetic causes of hyperbilirubinaemia however these are not covered in depth within this review. Conclusions: Diagnostic schema are presented for the investigation of hyperbilirubinaemia and the limitations of the laboratory tests discussed. The following schema, by focusing on the investigation of bilirubin disturbances, should support healthcare professionals to efficiently and systematically approach people with bilirubin abnormalities.
Background and Objective: The following article is part of a special series to aid the physician in diagnosing the cause of various plasma abnormalities. Patients presenting with low or high alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity can present a diagnostic challenge, particularly in the absence of symptoms. The objective is to provide information and algorithms to support the physician to order and interpret appropriate investigations when faced with this situation. Methods: A narrative, focused literature review was performed of English language resources using PubMed, OMIM, ScienceDirect, and Google. References published from database inception to June 2023 were searched for from February 2023 to June 2023. Further articles were identified from reference lists. Key Content and Findings: Bone and liver are the primary sources of ALP activity. When activity is low correlates with potassium, magnesium, and calcium concentrations which can help rule out specimen contamination and identify bone disease and malnutrition. When activity is high correlates with liver function tests, followed by a bone profile if normal. Analytical limitations include the range of isoforms present such as macro-ALP which can affect the results obtained. Conclusions: Diagnostic algorithms are presented that should support healthcare professionals to efficiently and systematically approach people with these abnormalities.
Background and Objective: The following article is part of a special series to aid the reader in diagnosing the cause of various electrolyte imbalances. By the end of the article, the reader should be able to order and interpret appropriate laboratory investigations when faced with a patient with hypercalcaemia or hypocalcaemia. Methods: A narrative, focused literature review was performed using Medline, PubMed, Google Scholar and OMIM during August 2023 to November 2023 to identify references published from database inception. Reference lists from these articles, as well as expert opinion from the authors, were also used. Language was restricted to English. Key Content and Findings: Calcium is an essential electrolyte and its blood concentration is tightly controlled by multiple homeostatic hormones, including parathyroid hormone (PTH) and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D. However, calcium imbalance can occur in many disease states and can lead to significant morbidity and mortality. PTH analysis is of primary importance in identifying the cause of a calcium disturbance. It should be noted that calcium results are particularly susceptible to being falsely low or high depending on whether ionised or total calcium is analysed, therefore the validity of calcium results should always be questioned if the results are not consistent with the clinical presentation. Hypercalcaemia is most commonly associated with primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) or malignancy. Hypocalcaemia is much rarer than hypercalcaemia, and if no obvious cause is found—e.g., post total thyroidectomy—consider hypomagnesaemia. Conclusions: Diagnostic flow charts are presented, and the limitations of the laboratory tests discussed. These algorithms, by focusing on the approach to the investigation of hypercalcaemia and hypocalcaemia, should support healthcare professionals to efficiently and rapidly diagnose the majority of causes of abnormal calcium states.
Background Autistic people are more likely to experience stigma, communication barriers and anxiety during healthcare. Autism Health Passports (AHPs) are a communication tool that aim to provide information about healthcare needs in a standardised way. They are recommended in research and policy to improve healthcare quality. Aim To explore views and experiences of AHPs among Autistic people from the UK who have been pregnant. Methods We developed an online survey using a combination of open and closed questions focused on healthcare impairments and views and experiences of AHPs. Data were anlaysed using descriptive statistics, Kruskal-Wallis tests, and content analysis. Findings Of 193 Autistic respondents (54% diagnosed, 22% undergoing diagnosis and 24% self-identifying), over 80% reported anxiety and masking during healthcare always or most of the time. Some significant differences were identified in healthcare (in)accessibility by diagnostic status. Only 4% of participants knew a lot about AHPs, with 1.5% of participants using one at least half of the time. Almost three quarters of respondents had not previously seen an AHP. Open text responses indicated that the biggest barrier to using an AHP was a belief that health professionals would discriminate against Autistic patients. Additional barriers included staff lack of familiarity with AHPs and respondents expecting a negative response to producing an AHP. Conclusions Our findings suggest that AHPs are not reducing health inequalities for Autistic adults who have been pregnant. Alternative solutions are needed to reduce health inequalities for Autistic people.
Background Case studies have highlighted labour rights abuse in the manufacture of several healthcare products, but little is known about the scale of the problem or the specific products involved. We aimed to quantify and compare the overall and product-specific risks of labour rights abuse in the manufacture of healthcare products supplied to high-income settings using multiple datasets on the product country of origin (COO). Methods Public procurement data from South-Eastern Norway (n=23,972 products) were compared to datasets from three other high-income settings: procurement data from Cambridge University Hospitals, trade data from UN Comtrade, and registry data from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). In each dataset, the product COO was matched to the International Trade Union Confederation risk rating for labour abuse and deemed high-risk when rated 4, 5, or 5+. Results In the Norway data, 55.4% of products by value had a COO declared, 49.1% of which mapped as high-risk of labour rights abuses. COO was identified for 70/100 products in the Cambridge data, with COO matching high-risk at 59.9% by value. The level of risk for specific medical product categories varied between the Norway, US FDA, and UN Comtrade datasets, but those with higher proportional risk included medical/surgical gloves and electrosurgical products. Conclusion Evidence of high-risk of labour rights abuse in the manufacture of healthcare products present in these data indicates a likely high level of risk across the sector. There is an urgent need for global legislative and political reform, with a particular focus on supply chain transparency as a key mechanism for tackling this issue.
Background Functional neurological disorder (FND) is a heterogeneous condition; severe forms can be disabling. Multidisciplinary treatment and rehabilitation are recommended for severe FND, but there remains a lack of evidence for its efficacy and lack of understanding of the predictors and components of recovery. Methods We report clinical outcome data for an inpatient cohort with severe FND. Clinical Global Impression Improvement with treatment is the primary outcome measure. Admission and discharge measures (Euroqol quality of life measures, Beck Depression Inventory, Spielberger Trait Anxiety Inventory, Cambridge Depersonalisation Scale, Illness Perception Questionnaire (Revised) and Functional Mobility Scale) are reported as secondary outcomes. Results We describe an FND cohort (n=52) with chronic illness (mean symptom duration 9.7 years). At admission, there were clinically relevant levels of depression, anxiety and depersonalisation derealisation. At the time of discharge, most (43/52) patients’ global condition had improved. Measures of mobility, depression and quality of life also significantly improved while at discharge, symptoms were experienced as more understandable and less distressing than at admission. An admission measure of patient confidence in treatment was predictive of eventual clinical outcome. Conclusions The most frequent outcome of inpatient rehabilitation is global improvement, even when symptoms are chronic and severe, reflected in measurable changes in both physical and psychological functioning. Significant levels of depersonalisation derealisation seen in this patient group suggest that routine enquiry into such experiences could help personalise FND treatment approaches. Patient confidence in treatment is key in determining clinical outcomes.
BACKGROUND Genetic testing to identify germline high-risk pathogenic variants in breast cancer susceptibility genes is an important step in the breast cancer diagnostic pathway. To expand capacity and reduce turnaround time, testing is increasingly offered within mainstream oncology services, rather than via referral to clinical genetics. However, mainstream capacity is also stretched, as testing is offered to greater proportions of patients. Novel patient-centred pathways may offer opportunity for improved access. PATIENTS AND METHODS We recruited 1,140 women with unselected breast cancer to undergo germline genetic testing through the BRCA-DIRECT digital pathway; compromising at-home saliva sampling and consenting, with access to a digital dashboard to complete tasks and a genetic counselling telephone hotline. Ahead of consenting to the test, participants were randomised to receive information about genetic testing digitally (569/1140, 49.9%) or via a pre-test genetic counselling consultation (571/1140, 50.1%). The primary outcome was uptake of genetic testing. We also measured patient knowledge, anxiety, and satisfaction, and conducted a healthcare professional survey. RESULTS 1,001 (87.8%) participants progressed to receive their pre-test information and consented to testing. Uptake was higher within participants randomised to receive digital information compared with those randomised to a pre-test genetic counselling consultation (90.8% (95% CI: 88.5% to 93.1%) vs 84.7% (95% CI: 81.8% to 87.6%), p=0.002, adjusted for participant age and site). Non-inferiority was observed in relation to all other outcomes evaluated. Usage of the telephone hotline was modest (&lt;20% of participants; 1,441 total minutes, 344 clinical minutes recorded) and, of 37 healthcare professionals surveyed, there was majority agreement that all elements of the pathway were equivalent to current standard-of-care. CONCLUSION Findings demonstrate that standardised, digital information offers a non-inferior alternative to conventional genetic counselling consultation, and that an end-to-end patient-centred, digital pathway (supported by genetic counselling hotline) could feasibly be implemented into mainstream breast oncology settings.
Background Historically, autism research has focused on the overrepresentation of physical and mental health problems and decreased psychological well-being in autistic people without intellectual impairment. There is a paucity of studies emphasizing what positively contributes to the well-being of autistic people. In line with a recent shift toward investigating autistic health more comprehensively, we conducted a scoping review to map emerging data on autistic well-being within a biopsychosocial context. Methods A Lived Experience Advisory Panel coproduced the review question. The research was collated using Preferred Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses guidelines for scoping reviews (PRISMA-ScR) with predefined selection criteria. Research based on the deficit-based view of autism and not within the core principles of the neurodiversity-affirmative movement was excluded. Results We collated 89 studies, with biological ( N = 8), psychological ( N = 70), and social ( N = 61) factors. Alongside an increase in affirmation-focused outputs, we identified several themes: ‘Impact of Diagnosis and Self-Identity’, ‘Self-empowering Characteristics’, ‘Cognition’, ‘Role of the Wider Community’, ‘Role of Relationships and Forms of Support’, and ‘Social Adaptations and Lessons from COVID-19’. Conclusions While neurodiversity-affirmative perspectives on autistic well-being are increasingly recognized as an important research area, there is a need for a more stringent exploration of interlinking biopsychosocial determinants. A focused approach within future research will enhance understanding of the promotion of autistic well-being. Lay abstract A lot of autism research focuses on the negative aspects of being autistic, for example, autistic people have a shorter life expectancy and are more likely to have physical and mental health conditions. There is not much research on what improves autistic well-being and quality of life. In this article, we summarize research that looks at positive factors which contribute to autistic well-being. We first asked four autistic adults which questions they think are most important to ask about autistic well-being. Together, we decided that we would look for research that is based on a neurodiversity-affirmative perspective and does not view autism as a deficit. We also decided we would look for biological, psychological, and social factors that positively contribute to autistic well-being for autistic people of all ages. We then used a specific method for searching different databases to see what other researchers had found that could answer our question. We found 89 studies that looked at biopsychosocial factors contributing to autistic well-being. Most of these were on psychological and social factors, with only a few on biological factors. We found that meaningful social connections, forms of support, and psychological factors like individual characteristics contributed to autistic well-being. Overall, we found that autistic well-being is a relatively new interest in autism research and that we need more research in the future to work out how we can improve the quality of life of autistic people of all ages.
Background Information on the quality of life of people hospitalised with COVID-19 is important, both in assessing the burden of disease and the cost-effectiveness of treatments. However, there were potential barriers to collecting such evidence. Objective To review the existing evidence on quality of life for people hospitalised with COVID-19, with a focus on the amount of evidence available and methods used. Design A scoping review with systematic searches. Results A total of 35 papers were selected for data extraction. The most common study type was economic evaluation ( N = 13), followed by cross-sectional ( N = 10). All economic evaluations used published utility values for other conditions to represent COVID-19 inpatients’ quality of life. The most popular quality-of-life survey measure was the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index ( N = 8). There were 12 studies that used a mental health-related survey and 12 that used a sleep-related survey. Five studies used EQ-5D, but only one collected responses from people in the acute phase of COVID-19. Studies reported a negative impact on quality of life for people hospitalised with COVID-19, although many studies did not include a formal comparison group. Limitations Although it used systematic searches, this was not a full systematic review. Conclusion Quality-of-life data were collected from people hospitalised with COVID-19 from relatively early in the pandemic. However, there was a lack of consensus as to what survey measures to use, and few studies used generic health measures. Economic evaluations for COVID-19 treatments did not use utilities collected from people with COVID-19. In future health crises, researchers should be vigilant for opportunities to collect quality-of-life data from hospitalised patients but should try to co-ordinate as well as ensuring generic health measures are used more. Funding This article presents independent research funded by the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme as award number NIHR132254.
Background People with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are more likely to adopt a sedentary lifestyle. Increased sedentary behaviour is associated with adverse health consequences and reduced life expectancy. Aim This mixed-methods systematic review aimed to report the factors contributing to sedentary behaviour in people with COPD. Methods A systematic search of electronic databases (Medline, CINAHL, PsycINFO and Cochrane Library) was conducted and supported by a clinician librarian in March 2023. Papers were identified and screened by two independent researchers against the inclusion and exclusion criteria, followed by data extraction and analysis of quality. Quantitative and qualitative data synthesis was performed. Results 1037 records were identified, 29 studies were included (26 quantitative and 3 qualitative studies) and most studies were conducted in high-income countries. The most common influencers of sedentary behaviour were associated with disease severity, dyspnoea, comorbidities, exercise capacity, use of supplemental oxygen and walking aids, and environmental factors. In-depth findings from qualitative studies included a lack of knowledge, self-perception and motivation. However, sedentarism in some was also a conscious approach, enabling enjoyment when participating in hobbies or activities. Conclusions Influencers of sedentary behaviour in people living with COPD are multifactorial. Identifying and understanding these factors should inform the design of future interventions and guidelines. A tailored, multimodal approach could have the potential to address sedentary behaviour. PROSPERO registration number CRD42023387335.
Background Perinatal mental health difficulties can occur during pregnancy or after birth and mental illness is a leading cause of maternal death. It is therefore important to identify the barriers and facilitators to implementing and accessing perinatal mental health care. Objectives Our research objective was to develop a conceptual framework of barriers and facilitators to perinatal mental health care (defined as identification, assessment, care and treatment) to inform perinatal mental health services. Methods Two systematic reviews were conducted to synthesise the evidence on: Review 1 barriers and facilitators to implementing perinatal mental health care; and Review 2 barriers to women accessing perinatal mental health care. Results were used to develop a conceptual framework which was then refined through consultations with stakeholders. Data sources Pre-planned searches were conducted on MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsychInfo and CINAHL. Review 2 also included Scopus and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Review methods In Review 1, studies were included if they examined barriers or facilitators to implementing perinatal mental health care. In Review 2, systematic reviews were included if they examined barriers and facilitators to women seeking help, accessing help and engaging in perinatal mental health care; and they used systematic search strategies. Only qualitative papers were identified from the searches. Results were analysed using thematic synthesis and themes were mapped on to a theoretically informed multi-level model then grouped to reflect different stages of the care pathway. Results Review 1 included 46 studies. Most were carried out in higher income countries and evaluated as good quality with low risk of bias. Review 2 included 32 systematic reviews. Most were carried out in higher income countries and evaluated as having low confidence in the results. Barriers and facilitators to perinatal mental health care were identified at seven levels: Individual (e.g. beliefs about mental illness); Health professional (e.g. confidence addressing perinatal mental illness); Interpersonal (e.g. relationship between women and health professionals); Organisational (e.g. continuity of carer); Commissioner (e.g. referral pathways); Political (e.g. women’s economic status); and Societal (e.g. stigma). These factors impacted on perinatal mental health care at different stages of the care pathway. Results from reviews were synthesised to develop two MATRIx conceptual frameworks of the (1) barriers and (2) facilitators to perinatal mental health care. These provide pictorial representations of 66 barriers and 39 facilitators that intersect across the care pathway and at different levels. Limitations In Review 1 only 10% of abstracts were double screened and 10% of included papers methodologically appraised by two reviewers. The majority of reviews included in Review 2 were evaluated as having low ( n = 14) or critically low ( n = 5) confidence in their results. Both reviews only included papers published in academic journals and written in English. Conclusions The MATRIx frameworks highlight the complex interplay of individual and system level factors across different stages of the care pathway that influence women accessing perinatal mental health care and effective implementation of perinatal mental health services. Recommendations for health policy and practice These include using the conceptual frameworks to inform comprehensive, strategic and evidence-based approaches to perinatal mental health care; ensuring care is easy to access and flexible; providing culturally sensitive care; adequate funding of services; and quality training for health professionals with protected time to do it. Future work Further research is needed to examine access to perinatal mental health care for specific groups, such as fathers, immigrants or those in lower income countries. Trial registration This trial is registered as PROSPERO: (R1) CRD42019142854; (R2) CRD42020193107. Funding This award was funded by the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Health and Social Care Delivery Research programme (NIHR award ref: NIHR 128068) and is published in full in Health and Social Care Delivery Research ; Vol. 12, No. 2. See the NIHR Funding and Awards website for further award information.
Background Persistent pain is the biggest global cause of years lived with disability. Physiotherapists working in pain care aim to take a holistic perspective helping persons to gain a multidimensional understanding of their condition and achieve meaningful goals despite their symptoms. In recent years there has been a paradigm shift in physiotherapeutic pain care toward a psychologically informed physiotherapy approach. Physiotherapists have incorporated principles of strategies such as: cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT); acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT); psychological flexibility; or mindfulness-based therapies in helping persons move forwards despite their pain.
Background Sexually transmitted infections disproportionately affect young people and men who have sex with men. Chlamydia is Britain’s most common sexually transmitted infection. Partner notification is a key intervention to reduce transmission of sexually transmitted infections and human immunodeficiency virus but is hard to implement. Accelerated partner therapy is a promising new approach. Objectives determine the effectiveness, costs and acceptability of accelerated partner therapy for chlamydia in heterosexual people model the cost effectiveness of accelerated partner therapy and impact on chlamydia transmission develop and cost partner notification interventions for men who have sex with men. Design Mixed-methods study to develop a new sex partner classification and optimise accelerated partner therapy; cluster crossover randomised controlled trial of accelerated partner therapy, with process and cost-consequence evaluation; dynamic modelling and health economic evaluation; systematic review of economic studies of partner notification for sexually transmitted infections in men who have sex with men; qualitative research to co-design a novel partner notification intervention for men who have sex with men with bacterial sexually transmitted infections. Settings Sexual health clinics and community services in England and Scotland. Participants Women and men, including men who have sex with men and people with mild learning disabilities. Interventions Accelerated partner therapy offered as an additional partner notification method. Main outcome measures Proportion of index patients with positive repeat chlamydia test (primary outcome); proportion of sex partners treated; costs per major outcome averted and quality-adjusted life-year; predicted chlamydia prevalence; experiences of accelerated partner therapy. Data sources Randomised controlled trial: partnership type, resource use, outcomes, qualitative data: economic analysis, modelling and systematic review: resource use and unit costs from the randomised controlled trial, secondary sources. Results The sex partner classification defined five types. Accelerated partner therapy modifications included simplified self-sampling packs and creation of training films. We created a clinical management and partner notification data collection system. In the randomised controlled trial, all 17 enrolled clinics completed both periods; 1536 patients were enrolled in the intervention phase and 1724 were enrolled in the control phase. Six hundred and sixty-six (43%) of 1536 index patients in the intervention phase and 800 (46%) of 1724 in the control phase were tested for Chlamydia trachomatis at 12–24 weeks after contact tracing consultation; 31 (4.7%) in the intervention phase and 53 (6.6%) in the control phase had a positive Chlamydia trachomatis test result [adjusted odds ratio 0.66 (95% confidence interval 0.41 to 1.04); p = 0.071]. The proportion of index patients with ≥ 1 sex partner treated was 88.0% (775/881) in intervention and 84.6% (760/898) in control phase, adjusted odds ratio 1.27 (95% confidence interval 0.96 to 1.68; p = 0.10). Overall, 293/1536 (19.1%) index patients chose accelerated partner therapy for 305 partners, of which partner types were: committed/established, 166/305 (54.4%); new, 85/305 (27.9%); occasional, 45/305 (14.8%); and one-off, 9/305 (3.0%). Two hundred and forty-eight accepted accelerated partner therapy and 241 partners were sent accelerated partner therapy packs, 120/241 (49.8%) returned chlamydia/gonorrhoea samples (78/119, 65.5%, positive for chlamydia, no result in one), but only 60/241 (24.9%) human immunodeficiency virus and syphilis samples (all negative). The primary outcomes of the randomised trial were not statistically significantly different at the 5% level. However, the economic evaluation found that accelerated partner therapy could be less costly compared with routine care, and mathematical modelling of effects and costs extrapolated beyond the trial end points suggested that accelerated partner therapy could be more effective and less costly than routine care in terms of major outcome averted and quality-adjusted life-years’. Healthcare professionals did not always offer accelerated partner therapy but felt that a clinical management and partner notification data collection system enhanced data recording. Key elements of a multilevel intervention supporting men who have sex with men in partner notification included: modifying the cultural and social context of men who have sex with men communities; improving skills and changing services to facilitate partner notification for one-off partners; and working with dating app providers to explore digital partner notification options. The systematic review found no evaluations of partner notification for men who have sex with men. Modelling of gonorrhoea and human immunodeficiency virus co-infection in men who have sex with men was technically challenging. Limitations In the randomised controlled trial, enrolment, follow-up and repeat infections were lower than expected, so statistical power was lower than anticipated. We were unable to determine whether accelerated partner therapy sped up partner treatment. Mathematical modelling of gonorrhoea/human immunodeficiency virus co-infection in men who have sex with men remained at an experimental stage. It was not feasible to include healthcare professionals in the men who have sex with men intervention development due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Conclusions Although the evidence that the intervention reduces repeat infection was not conclusive, the trial results suggest that accelerated partner therapy can be safely offered as a contact tracing option and is also likely to be cost saving, but is best suited to sex partners with emotional connection to the index patient. The Programme’s findings about classification of sexual partner types can be implemented in sexual health care with auditable outcomes. Future work Further research is needed on how to increase uptake of accelerated partner therapy and increase sexually transmitted infections self-sampling by partners; understand how services can use partnership-type information to improve partner notification, especially for those currently underserved; overcome challenges in modelling sexually transmitted infections and human immunodeficiency virus co-infection in men who have sex with men; develop and evaluate an intervention to optimise partner notification among men who have sex with men, focusing on one-off partnerships. Trial registration This trial is registered as ISRCTN15996256. Funding This award was funded by the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Programme Grants for Applied Research Programme (NIHR award ref: RP-PG-0614-20009) and is published in full in Programme Grants for Applied Research ; Vol. 12, No. 2. See the NIHR Funding and Awards website for further award information.
Background Stigma exacerbates power imbalances and societal disparities, significantly impacting diverse identities and health conditions, particularly for low and middle-income countries (LMICs).Though crucial for dismantling harmful stereotypes, and enhancing healthcare utilisation, existing research on anti-stigma interventions is limited with its condition-focused approach.We aimed to thoroughly evaluate peer-reviewed and non-peer-reviewed literature for a comprehensive review of anti-stigma interventions for diverse identities and all health conditions in LMICs.Methods This review systematically explored peer-reviewed and non-peer-reviewed literature, in ten electronic databases up to January 30, 2024, covering all anti-stigma interventions across various stigmatised identities and health conditions in LMICs.Quality assessment for this systematic review was conducted as per Cochrane Collaboration's suggested inclusions.The review was registered with PROSPERO (Registration: 2017 CRD42017064283).Findings Systematic synthesis of the 192 included studies highlights regional imbalances, while providing valuable insights on robustness and reliability of anti-stigma research.Most studies used quasi-experimental design, and most centred on HIV/AIDS or mental health related stigma, with very little work on other issues.Certain high-population LMICs had no/little representation.Interpretation The interventions targeted diverse segments of populations and consequently yielded a multitude of stigma-related outcomes.However, despite the heterogeneity of studies, most reported positive outcomes underscoring the effectiveness of existing interventions to reduce stigma.
Background Sub-Saharan Africa is the most anemia-prone region, with several of the sub-region’s countries having a substantial prevalence of the anemia among women of reproductive age. Nonetheless, no adequate study has been conducted to illustrate severity levels and associated factors of anemia among women of reproductive age. Therefore, this study presents the most recent estimates on the prevalence and severity levels of anemia and its associated factors among women of reproductive age in 21 Sub-Saharan Africa countries. Methods This study used the most recent Demographic Health Survey (DHS) datasets, which were collected in 21 sub-Saharan African countries between 2015 and 2022. A total of 171,348 women of reproductive age were included in the analysis. Multilevel (three-level) ordinal logistic regression was done to identify factors associated with severity levels of anemia. Results The pooled prevalence of anemia was 41.74%. The pooled prevalence of mild, moderate and severe anemia was 23.45, 17.05 and 1.24, respectively. Women who were living at distance to a health facility (AOR = 1.07), women living in the poorest households (AOR = 1.49), women living in the households with unimproved toilet (AOR = 1.12) and in households that were using solid cooking fuel (AOR = 1.10), pregnant women (AOR = 1.72) and those who have given birth to more than one children within 3 years (AOR = 1.43) had greater odds of higher levels of anemia as compared to their counterparts. Women who were in the age groups of 20–24 (AOR = 0.81), 25–29 (AOR = 0.78), 30–34 (AOR = 0.79), 35–39 (AOR = 0.88), and 45–49 (AOR = 0.89), women who have attended primary school (AOR = 0.50), secondary (AOR = 0.57) and higher education (AOR = 0.76) and who were living in rural area (AOR = 1.07) had lower odds of higher levels of anemia as compared to their counterparts. Conclusion Considering individual, household and community contexts is necessary while formulating and implementing anemia prevention and control policies. Adolescent women, and women who did not attend education and at a distance to a health facility should get especial attention while implementing anemia prevention and control programs.
Background The combination of dolutegravir plus rilpivirine has been studied in people with virologically suppressed HIV with no previous history of treatment failure or resistance. We investigated the potential to maintain viral suppression with dolutegravir plus rilpivirine in people with Lys103Asn mutations whose HIV was previously managed with other treatment regimens. Methods In this open-label pilot trial at 32 clinical sites in seven European countries, virologically suppressed, HBsAg-negative adults aged 18 years or older with HIV-1 and Lys103Asn mutations were randomly assigned (2:1) to switch to 50 mg dolutegravir plus 25 mg rilpivirine (given as a single tablet) once daily or to continue their current antiretroviral therapy regimen (control group). After 48 weeks, participants in the control group also switched to dolutegravir plus rilpivirine. Randomisation was stratified by country, and a computer-generated randomisation list with permuted blocks within strata was used to assign participants to treatment groups. The primary endpoints were virological failure (ie, two consecutive measurements of 50 copies or more of HIV RNA per mL at least 2 weeks apart) and virological suppression (the proportion of participants with fewer than 50 copies of HIV RNA per mL) at week 48 (week 96 data will be reported separately). Analyses were done in the modified intention-to-treat population, which included all participants who received at least one dose of the study medication. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT05349838, and EudraCT, 2017-004040-38. Findings Between Nov 5, 2018, and Dec 9, 2020, 140 participants were enrolled and randomly assigned, 95 to the dolutegravir plus rilpivirine group and 45 to the control group. Virological failure was recorded in three participants (3·2%, 95% CI 0·7 to 9·0) in the the dolutegravir plus rilpivirine group and one (2·2%, 0·1 to 11·8) in the control group. The proportion of participants in whom virological suppression was maintained at week 48 was 88·4% (80·2 to 94·1) in the dolutegravir plus rilpivirine group versus 88·9% (75·9 to 96·3) in the control group (difference –0·5, –11·7 to 10·7). Significantly more adverse events were recorded in the dolutegravir plus rilpivirine group than in the control group (234 vs 72; p=0·0034), but the proportion of participants who reported at least one adverse event was similar between groups (76 [80%] of 95 vs 33 [73%] of 45; p=0·39). The frequency of serious adverse events was low and similar between groups. Interpretation Virological suppression was maintained at week 48 in most participants with Lys103Asn mutations when they switched from standard regimens to dolutegravir plus rilpivirine. The results of this pilot study, if maintained when the week 96 data are reported, support conduct of a large, well-powered trial of dolutegravir plus rilpivirine. Funding ViiV Healthcare.
Background The COVID-19 pandemic propelled immunology into global news and social media, resulting in the potential for misinterpreting and misusing complex scientific concepts. Objective To study the extent to which immunology is discussed in news articles and YouTube videos in English and Italian, and if related scientific concepts are used to support specific political or ideological narratives in the context of COVID-19. Methods In English and Italian we searched the period 11/09/2019 to 11/09/2022 on YouTube, using the software Mozdeh, for videos mentioning COVID-19 and one of nine immunological concepts: antibody-dependent enhancement, anergy, cytokine storm, herd immunity, hygiene hypothesis, immunity debt, original antigenic sin, oxidative stress and viral interference. We repeated this using MediaCloud for news articles. Four samples of 200 articles/videos were obtained from the randomised data gathered and analysed for mentions of concepts, stance on vaccines, masks, lockdown, social distancing, and political signifiers. Results Vaccine-negative information was higher in videos than news (8-fold in English, 6-fold in Italian) and higher in Italian than English (4-fold in news, 3-fold in videos). We also observed the existence of information bubbles, where a negative stance towards one intervention was associated with a negative stance to other linked ideas. Some immunological concepts (immunity debt, viral interference, anergy and original antigenic sin) were associated with anti-vaccine or anti-NPI (non-pharmacological intervention) views. Videos in English mentioned politics more frequently than those in Italian and, in all media and languages, politics was more frequently mentioned in anti-guidelines and anti-vaccine media by a factor of 3 in video and of 3–5 in news. Conclusion There is evidence that some immunological concepts are used to provide credibility to specific narratives and ideological views. The existence of information bubbles supports the concept of the “rabbit hole” effect, where interest in unconventional views/media leads to ever more extreme algorithmic recommendations.
Background The rapid evolution of conversational and generative artificial intelligence (AI) has led to the increased deployment of AI tools in healthcare settings. While these conversational AI tools promise efficiency and expanded access to healthcare services, there are growing concerns ethically, practically and in terms of inclusivity. This study aimed to identify activities which reduce bias in conversational AI and make their designs and implementation more equitable. Methods A qualitative research approach was employed to develop an analytical framework based on the content analysis of 17 guidelines about AI use in clinical settings. A stakeholder consultation was subsequently conducted with a total of 33 ethnically diverse community members, AI designers, industry experts and relevant health professionals to further develop a roadmap for equitable design and implementation of conversational AI in healthcare. Framework analysis was conducted on the interview data. Results A 10-stage roadmap was developed to outline activities relevant to equitable conversational AI design and implementation phases: 1) Conception and planning, 2) Diversity and collaboration, 3) Preliminary research, 4) Co-production, 5) Safety measures, 6) Preliminary testing, 7) Healthcare integration, 8) Service evaluation and auditing, 9) Maintenance, and 10) Termination. Discussion We have made specific recommendations to increase conversational AI’s equity as part of healthcare services. These emphasise the importance of a collaborative approach and the involvement of patient groups in navigating the rapid evolution of conversational AI technologies. Further research must assess the impact of recommended activities on chatbots’ fairness and their ability to reduce health inequalities.
Background The UK National Health Service (NHS) Long Term Plan aims to reduce waiting times for childhood autism diagnostic assessment and improve parent and child satisfaction. This empirical research investigated current childhood diagnostic practice provision, and changes made by teams to address challenges faced. Methods Data were collected using an online semi-structured research questionnaire. UK childhood autism diagnostic assessment services (for children aged 1–18 years) were invited to participate through multidisciplinary clinical networks, special interest groups and professionals mailing lists. The study was on the National Institute for Health Research Clinical Research Network portfolio. Results 128 clinicians from diverse NHS services responded including: 10 (8%) integrated services, 46 (36%) Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS) and 72 (56%) paediatric services. A minority of services (23, 17.9%) reported always meeting the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guidance for assessment. Referrals rose 115% between 2015 and 2019. Clinicians described increased child and family complexity compared with previously; children had more co-occurring physical, mental health and neurodevelopmental conditions and there were more frequent family health problems and safeguarding concerns. Most services (97, 75.8%) reported recent funding stayed constant/decreased. Incomplete multidisciplinary teams (MDTs) were frequently reported; a minority of services reported increased availability of professionals, and some experienced reductions in key professionals. Many teams were unable to undertake assessments or make recommendations for associated neurodevelopmental and co-existing conditions. Teams described improvement strategies implemented (eg, adapting professionals’ roles, supporting parents). Conclusions Most UK autism paediatric and CAMHS diagnostic teams experience significant challenges affecting the assessment of children with possible autism, and recommendations regarding treatment/intervention. Where CAMHS or paediatric services work in isolation, there are often competency gaps in MDTs and ability to deliver full neurodevelopmental and mental health assessments. Teams identified service improvement strategies; however, investment in MDT expertise is required to enable services to implement changes to meet the needs of children and families.
Background There are calls worldwide for the mainstreaming of genetic testing in breast cancer (BC) clinics, but health care professionals (HCPs) are not always familiar with nor confident about genetic counselling. TRUSTING ( T alking about R isk &amp; u ncertaintie s of T esting in G enetics is an educational programme shown to significantly improve HCPs’ knowledge, communication, self-confidence, and self-awareness. We rolled out TRUSTING workshops across the UK and probed their influence on mainstreaming within BC clinics. Methods 1 surgeon, 3 oncologists, and 1 nurse specialist who had attended the original TRUSTING evaluation project were trained to facilitate the 8-hour programme in pairs. The participants (all health care professionals) attending their workshops completed 3 questionnaires: - 1) the Intolerance to Uncertainty Scale, 2) an 18-item multiple choice knowledge questionnaire about BRCA 1/2 gene testing, incidence and risk reducing interventions and 3) a 10-item questionnaire exploring self-confidence when advising patients and their families about these issues. Both knowledge and self-confidence were re-tested post workshop together with evaluation of the facilitators’ approach and overall satisfaction with the event. Follow-up questionnaires 3–12 months later examined impact of workshops on HCPs’ own practice and how mainstreaming was working in their clinics. Results 120 HCPs (61 surgeons; 41 nurses; 9 oncologists; 9 other) attended 12 workshops. Knowledge scores (mean change = 6.58; 95% CI 6.00 to 7.17; p&lt;0.001), and self-confidence (mean change = 2.64; 95% CI 2.33 to 2.95; p&lt;0.001) improved significantly post workshop. Ratings for the facilitators’ approach were uniformly high (mean range 9.6 to 9.9 /10). Most delegates found the workshops useful, enjoyable, and informative and 98% would definitively recommend them to colleagues. Follow-up data (n = 72/96) showed that 57% believed attendance had improved their own practice when discussing genetic testing with their patients. When asked about mainstreaming more generally, 78% reported it was working well, 18% had not yet started, and 3% thought it was problematic in their centre. Conclusions Discussing the implications that having a pathogenic gene alteration has for patients’ treatment and risk-reducing interventions is complex when patients are already coming to terms with a breast cancer diagnosis. Training facilitators enhanced the wider roll-out of the TRUSTING educational programme and is an effective means of helping HCPs now involved in the mainstreaming of genetic testing.
Background This paper describes a UK-based study, SPICES-Sussex, which aimed to co-produce and implement a community-based cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk assessment and reduction intervention to support under-served populations at moderate risk of CVD. The objectives were to enhance stakeholder engagement; to implement the intervention in four research sites and to evaluate the use of Voluntary and Community and Social Enterprises (VCSE) and Community Health Worker (CHW) partnerships in health interventions. Methods A type three hybrid implementation study design was used with mixed methods data. This paper represents the process evaluation of the implementation of the SPICES-Sussex Project. The evaluation was conducted using the RE-AIM framework. Results Reach: 381 individuals took part in the risk profiling questionnaire and forty-one women, and five men participated in the coaching intervention. Effectiveness: quantitative results from intervention participants showed significant improvements in CVD behavioural risk factors across several measures. Qualitative data indicated high acceptability, with the holistic, personalised, and person-centred approach being valued by participants. Adoption: 50% of VCSEs approached took part in the SPICES programme, The CHWs felt empowered to deliver high-quality and mutually beneficial coaching within a strong project infrastructure that made use of VCSE partnerships. Implementation: Co-design meetings resulted in local adaptations being made to the intervention. 29 (63%) of participants completed the intervention. Practical issues concerned how to embed CHWs in a health service context, how to keep engaging participants, and tensions between research integrity and the needs and expectations of those in the voluntary sector. Maintenance: Several VCSEs expressed an interest in continuing the intervention after the end of the SPICES programme. Conclusion Community-engagement approaches have the potential to have positively impact the health and wellbeing of certain groups. Furthermore, VCSEs and CHWs represent a significant untapped resource in the UK. However, more work needs to be done to understand how links between the sectors can be bridged to deliver evidence-based effective alternative preventative healthcare. Reaching vulnerable populations remains a challenge despite partnerships with VCSEs which are embedded in the community. By showing what went well and what did not, this project can guide future work in community engagement for health.
Background Transgender and nonbinary (TNB) people face barriers to primary care, which remains the main entry point for accessing gender-affirming healthcare in the UK.
Background/Aim: Concerning primary central nervous system neoplasms, meningiomas demonstrate the most common type in adults worldwide. Deregulation of apoptotic pathways in malignancies, including meningiomas, is correlated with chemoresistance and poor prognosis. Caspases represent crucial proteins that induce cell apoptosis. This study aimed to correlate caspase 3 protein expression levels to meningioma clinic-pathological features. Materials and Methods: A set of fifty (n=50) meningioma lesions was included in the current analysis including a broad spectrum of histopathological subtypes (meningotheliomatous, psammomatus, transitional, fibrous, angiomatous, microcystic, atypical and anaplastic). Immunohistochemistry was implemented on tissue microarray cores of selected paraffin blocks by applying an anti-caspase 3 antibody. Additionally, an image analysis protocol was also performed in the corresponding immunostained slides. Results: Caspase 3 protein over-expression was detected in 17/50 (34%) cases, whereas the remaining 33 cases (66%) were characterized by medium to low levels of the molecule. Caspase 3 expression was statistically significantly associated with the grade of the analyzed tumors and the mitotic index (p=0.002, p=0.001, respectively). Caspase 3 expression status was also correlated with the histotype of the selected meningiomas (p=0.016). Conclusion: Caspase 3 demonstrated low expression levels in a significant subset of the examined meningiomas correlated with differentiation grade, mitotic activity, and partially with specific histotypes. Agents that could enhance caspase 3 expression – inducing its apoptotic activity – represent a very promising area in oncology for developing novel treatment regimens.
Background/Aim: Radiotherapy plays a key role in the treatment of gynecological cancer. Modern radiotherapy techniques with external beams (e-RT) are applied in a broad spectrum of gynecological cancer cases. However, high radiation doses, affecting normal tissue adjacent to cancer, represent the main disadvantage of e-RT regimens. For this reason, brachytherapy (BT), an internal beam-based technique (i-RT), is suggested following e-RT. Our purpose was to compare e-RT plans using volumetric-modulated arc therapy (VMAT) with those using 3D conformal techniques (3D-CRT) and compare BT plans guided by 3D or 2D imaging based on the potential corresponding toxicity levels. Materials and Methods: In this preliminary, non-randomized comparative retrospective study, 15 females suffering gynecological cancer were enrolled. Modern e-RT and i-RT (BT) techniques were applied. Results: Concerning e-RT, D95/D99/rectum 2cc/bladder 2cc and small intestine 2cc were measured and compared; in i-RT, rectum 2cc/bladder 2cc were measured and compared. The median dose to the planning target volume in VMAT was 97.4 Gy compared with 92.9 Gy in 3D-CRT. Τhe rectum received almost 5 Gy less in VMAT compared to 3D-CRT (median of 43.5 Gy vs. 48.6 Gy; p=0.001). In the bladder, dose differences were minimal, while the small intestine received 47.6 Gy in VMAT (p=0.001). Regarding 3D-BT, the rectum received 63.1 Gy compared with 49.9 Gy (p=0.009) in 2D-BT. Concerning the bladder, mean 2D-BT and 3D-BT doses were 71.9 and 65 Gy, respectively, differing non-significantly. Conclusion: VMAT was found to be superior to 3D-CRT, especially in dose distribution, volume coverage and protection of critical organs. Similarly, 3D-BT should be preferred over 2D-BT due to critical advantages.
Background/aims: Only a handful of countries are on target to achieve hepatitis C virus (HCV) elimination by 2030. People experiencing homelessness (PEH) remain an important HCV reservoir. The END C study evaluated clinical, patient reported and health economic outcomes of a decentralised integrated model.MethodsThis prospective study assessed a decentralised regional service based at multiple homeless sites in southeast England. Novel linkage-care strategies were utilised. We assessed generic and liver specific health-related quality of life (HRQoL) (SF-12v2; EQ-5D-5L and SFLDQol) pre/post HCV treatment and cost per HCV case detected and cured. Primary outcome was intention-to-treat (ITT) sustained virological response (SVR12).ResultsWe recruited 418 individuals, mean age 44.45 ± 10.6, 78% were male, 74% being currently homeless, current injecting drug use/alcohol use being 25% and 65% respectively. Prevalence of cirrhosis (liver stiffness measurement >12kPa) was 12%. Twenty-eight percent (n=116) were HCV PCR positive, of whom n=105 received direct acting antiviral treatment. ITT SVR12 rates were 81% (95% CI 72%-88%), the only predictor of SVR12 being >80% treatment adherence (OR 20.69, 95% CI 6.227-68.772, p<0.001). HRQoL improved significantly after SVR12: SF-12v2 (General Health, Mental Health, Social Functioning, Mental Health Composite Score p<0.049); SFLDQoL (Symptoms/Effects of Liver Disease, Distress, Loneliness p<0.004) and EQ-5D-5L (Index Score, Visual Analog Scale p<0.001). Costs (British pound 2022) per HCV case detected and per case cured were £359 and £257 respectively. Reinfection rates were 6.82/100 person years.ConclusionThe END C study endorses a multisite decentralised service for PEH enabling excellent linkage to care, high SVR12 rates and significant improvements in generic and liver specific HRQoL, all being achieved at modest costs. Such services are paramount to help achieve HCV elimination.Impact and implicationsIn people experiencing homeless, we found a high prevalence of HCV, alcohol and substance misuse including overdoses and mental health issues. Despite this, an integrated and decentralised service resulted in excellent linkage to care with high SVR12 rates. Even in this complex cohort with multiple comorbidities, SVR12 was associated with significant improvements in both generic and liver specific health-related quality of life. This was all achieved at modest costs in a community setting. Such models of care are feasible, easy to replicate and essential if we are to achieve HCV elimination.
Background: Care delivered via multidisciplinary teams (MDTs) is becoming increasingly prevalent in clinical medicine.Medical students are often encouraged to observe MDT meetings to learn about multidisciplinary care; however, this approach presents potential barriers to learning.We describe a novel teaching exercise which engages students in adopting roles in a simulated MDT, with the aim of improving understanding of how MDTs operate to deliver cancer care.Methods: A simulation exercise was designed which assigned individual students to one of 10 MDT roles.Each student was given specific information about a fictional patient which pertained to their role and asked to collectively discuss management options.Feedback forms were distributed to students to assess self-reported understanding of MDTs and perceived teaching quality of the simulation exercise compared to facilitated observation of a formal MDT meeting.Results: Sixty-five students participated in both the simulation exercise and the facilitated MDT observation session and provided feedback.Most students (78%) rated the simulation exercise as either 'good' (40%) or 'excellent' (38%), with a statistically significant improvement in mean score for the role-play compared to facilitated formal MDT observation [mean difference 0.46, P 5 0.001, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.23-0.69].Fifty-three students (82%) reported that participation in the simulation exercise improved their understanding of MDTs.Conclusions: Multidisciplinary care teaching can be delivered to medical students in an acceptable and effective form using simulation-based training.Potential further developments for simulated MDTs include use of parallel pre-and post-test questions to assess learning and use of anonymised patient data to create authentic vignettes.
Background: Intimate partner violence (IPV) is a global issue impacting 1 in 3 women worldwide. IPV has been shown to have direct impact on the physical, psychological, and social aspects of life and overall well-being. Objective: The purpose of this study was to explore associations between report of IPV and physical, psychological, and social health outcomes with special emphasis on relationship of IPV to pelvic floor, pelvic pain, and urinary incontinence for Bangladeshi women. Study Design: A cross-sectional study was conducted using purposive sampling. Methods: Married women between 18 and 50 years were recruited in the study. IPV was measured using the Hurt-Insult-Threaten-Scream (HITS) screening tool and complex trauma was measured utilizing the Complex Trauma Inventory (CTI) Scale. Data were analyzed through SPSS version 21.0, and reported as descriptive statistics. Results: The total number of the respondents was n = 100. The mean age of respondents was 36.57 years (standard deviation ± 9.66). According to the HITS screening tool 27% respondents reported IPV. There was a significant, strong correlation between HITS scores for IPV and negative health outcomes of chronic disease and disability ( r = 0.8; P ≤ .05). There was a direct association between HITS scores and (1) CTI scores for complex trauma, (2) pelvic floor dysfunction, and (3) duration of marriage. Conclusion: High prevalence of IPV was reported for this cohort of women living in Bangladesh. HITS scores for IPV were direct significant associations with severity and intensity of posttraumatic stress disorder on the CTI, and with low back pain, pelvic floor dysfunction, postpartum complications, and cardiac problems.
Background: Prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) can result in lifelong disabilities known as foetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD) and is associated with childhood growth deficiencies and increased bone fracture risk. However, the effects of PAE on the adult skeleton remain unclear and any potential sexual dimorphism is undetermined. Therefore, we utilised a murine model to examine sex differences with PAE on in vitro bone formation, and in the juvenile and adult skeleton. Methods: Pregnant C57BL/6J female mice received 5% ethanol in their drinking water during gestation. Primary calvarial osteoblasts were isolated from neonatal offspring and mineralised bone nodule formation and gene expression assessed. Skeletal phenotyping of 4- and 12-week-old male and female offspring was conducted by micro-computed tomography (uCT), 3-point bending, growth plate analyses, and histology. Results: Osteoblasts from male and female PAE mice displayed reduced bone formation, compared to control (less than or equal to 30%). Bglap and Ahsg were upregulated with PAE in both sexes compared to control, whereas Vegfa, Bmp6, Tgfbr1 and Flt1 were downregulated in PAE male osteoblasts only. In 12-week-old mice, uCT analysis revealed a sex and exposure interaction across several trabecular bone parameters. PAE was detrimental to the trabecular compartment in male mice compared to control, yet PAE females were unaffected. Both male and female mice had significant reductions in cortical parameters with PAE. Whilst male mice were negatively affected along the tibia length, females were only distally affected. Posterior cortical porosity was increased in PAE females only. Mechanical testing revealed PAE males had significantly reduced bone stiffness compared to controls; maximum load and yield was reduced in both sexes. PAE had no effect on total body weight or tibial bone length in either sex. However, total growth plate width in male PAE mice compared to control was reduced, whilst female PAE mice were unaffected. 4-week-old mice did not display the altered skeletal phenotype with PAE observed in 12-week-old animals. Conclusions: Evidence herein suggests for the first time that PAE exerts divergent sex effects on the skeleton, possibly influenced by underlying sex specific transcriptional mechanisms of osteoblasts. Establishing these sex differences will support future policies and clinical management of FASD.
Background: Primary care clinicians see people experiencing the full range of mental health problems. Determining when symptoms reflect disorder is complex. The Four-Dimensional Symptom Questionnaire (4DSQ) uniquely distinguishes general distress from depressive and anxiety disorders. It may support diagnostic conversations and targeting of treatment. Aim: We aimed to explore peoples’ experiences of completing the 4DSQ and their perceptions of their resulting score profile across distress, depression, anxiety and physical symptoms. Design and Setting: A qualitative study conducted in the UK with people recruited from primary care and community settings. Method: Participants completed the 4DSQ then took part in semi-structured telephone interviews. They were interviewed about their experience of completing the 4DSQ, their perceptions of their scores across four dimensions, and the perceived utility if used with a clinician. Interviews were transcribed verbatim and data were analysed thematically. Results: Twenty-four interviews were conducted. Most participants found the 4DSQ easy to complete and reported that scores across the four dimensions aligned well with their symptom experience. Distinct scores for distress, depression and anxiety appeared to support improved self-understanding. Some valued the opportunity to discuss their scores and provide relevant context. Many felt the use of the 4DSQ with clinicians would be helpful and likely to support treatment decisions, although some were concerned about time-limited consultations. Conclusion: Distinguishing general distress from depressive and anxiety disorders aligned well with people’s experience of symptoms. Use of the 4DSQ as part of mental health consultations may support targeting of treatment and personalisation of care.
Background: Progressive respiratory muscle weakness and ineffective cough contribute to morbidity and mortality in children with neuromuscular disorders (NMD). Inspiratory muscle training (IMT) aims to preserve or improve respiratory muscle strength and reduce respiratory morbidity. This study aimed to determine the safety and efficacy of IMT in children with NMD. Methods/design: A randomised cross-over study compared a 3-month intervention (IMT) with control periods (no IMT). Children diagnosed with NMD (5 years – 18 years) performed 30 breaths (at 30% of maximum inspiratory mouth pressure [Pimax]) with an electronic threshold device, twice daily. During the control period, participants did not perform any IMT. Discussion: Twenty three children (median [interquartile range {IQR}] age of 12.33 [10.03–14.17] years), mostly male ( n = 20) and non-ambulant ( n = 14) participated. No adverse events related to IMT were reported. No difference in median patient hospitalisation and respiratory tract infection (RTI) rates between non-training and intervention periods ( p = 0.60; p = 0.21) was found. During IMT, Pimax and peak cough flow improved with a mean ± standard deviation (s.d.) of 14.57 ± 15.67 cmH 2 O and 32.27 ± 36.60 L/min, compared to 3.04 ± 11.93 cmH 2 O ( p = 0.01) and −16.59 ± 48.29 L/min ( p = 0.0005) during the non-training period. Similar to other studies, spirometry did not show a significant change. Conclusion: A 3-month IMT programme in children with NMD appears safe and well-tolerated, with significant improvement in respiratory muscle strength and cough efficacy. Clinical implications: Inspiratory muscle training could be considered a cost-effective adjunct to respiratory management in children with NMD. Trial Registration: Pan African Clinical Trial Registry, PACTR201506001171421, https://pactr.samrc.ac.za .
Background: Rheumatic heart disease (RHD) imposes a significant burden on patients and the health system, especially in the developing countries. Recently, the role of vitamin D deficiency in increasing the severity of valve involvement and calcification in patients with RHD has been suggested. However, its role in the severe stenosis of the mitral valve is unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the relationship between serum levels of 25(OH)D and mitral involvement severity scores in patients with severe mitral stenosis (MS). Materials and Methods: In this cross-sectional study conducted in Shahid Madani Heart Center, Tabriz, Iran, 104 patients with severe rheumatic MS were reviewed, in the absence of other underlying diseases. Trans-esophageal Echocardiography was performed for all patients, and mitral valve Wilkins score and mitral valve area were calculated. Blood samples were taken from patients and levels of 25(OH)D, total calcium, phosphorus, and i-PTH were measured. Results: Eighty eight cases were female and 16 were male. Eighty-one patients had mild to moderate mitral calcification and in 23 patients with mitral valve was severely calcified. Furthermore, 54 were vitamin D deficient, while 35 had insufficient vitamin D levels, and only 15 had normal blood levels of vitamin D. In addition high serum iPTH levels were present in 83 patients (80%). The levels of 25(OH)D, calcium, phosphorous, and iPTH with total Wilkins score, calcification score and mitral valve area were not significantly correlated (p&gt;0.05 for all above). Conclusions: Although no correlation was found between the severity of mitral valve involvement, and vitamin D and iPTH levels, vitamin D deficiency and secondary hyperparathyroidism tend to be common among patients with severe rheumatic MS, which may play a role in the progression of the disease.
Background: There is a growing evidence-base underpinning implementation of person-centred outcome measures into adult palliative care. However evidence on how best to achieve this with children facing life-threatening and life-limiting conditions is limited. Aim: To identify the anticipated benefits, risks, barriers and facilitators to implementing person-centred outcome measures for children with life-limiting and life-threatening conditions. Design: Cross-sectional qualitative semi-structured interview study with key stakeholders analysed using Framework analysis informed by the adapted-Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research. Setting/participants: A total of n = 26 children with life-limiting or life-threatening conditions, n = 40 parents/carers, n = 13 siblings and n = 15 health and social care professionals recruited from six hospitals and three children’s hospices and n = 12 Commissioners of health services. Results: All participants were supportive of future implementation of person-centred outcome measures into care. Anticipated benefits included: better understanding of patient and family priorities, improved communication and collaborative working between professionals and families and standardisation in data collection and reporting. Anticipated risks included increased workload for staff and measures not being used as intended. Implementation barriers included: acceptability and usability of outcome measures by children; burden and capacity of parents/carers regarding completion; privacy concerns; and language barriers. Implementation facilitators included designing measures using language that is meaningful to children and families, ensuring potential benefits of person-centred outcome measures are communicated to encourage ‘buy-in’ and administering measures with known and trusted professional. Conclusions: Implementation of person-centred outcome measures offer potential benefits for children with life-limiting and life-threatening conditions. Eight recommendations are made to maximise benefits and minimise risks in implementation.
Background: Vitamin D deficiency is a worldwide condition, which has been linked to a variety of health-related issues. Vitamin D can be beneficial to cardiovascular patients and those suffering from depression and anxiety, based on Survey of Ultraviolet Intake by Nutritional Approach (SUVINA study), ,showing the potential effects of vitamin D-fortified dairy products on anxiety, depression, and stress in subjects with cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors. Methods: It was a quadruple-blind randomized controlled trial. Individuals were randomly allocated to one of four groups: fortified low-fat milk (FM), non-fortified low-fat milk (NFM), fortified low-fat yogurt (FY), and non-fortified low-fat yogurt (NFY). FM and FY groups were fortified with 1500 IU nano-encapsulated vitamin D3. Anthropometric parameters as well as depression, anxiety, and stress scores were measured at baseline and after a ten-week trial in Mashhad, Iran. Results: Totally, 289 participants (143 men, 146 women) with a mean age of 41.86±7.81years were enrolled in the study. There was no statistical difference between the scores of depression, anxiety, and stress in participants with and without CVD risk factors (P&gt;0.05). No statistical difference was found in the subgroup analysis based on milk and yogurt consumption. Conclusions: Fortified low-fat milk containing 1,500 IU of vitamin D has no impact on improving depression, anxiety, and stress during ten weeks. However, further studies with higher vitamin D doses for a longer duration are recommended.
BACKGROUNDCoronoid fracture size is one important factor in decision making on surgical versus non-surgical management. There is currently no reliable, standardized technique to measure coronoid fracture size or bone loss. Hence, decision making remains arbitrary and recommendations made in the literature are unreliable. The aim of the study was to develop and assess a simple, reliable CT-based technique that allows measurement of apical and anteromedial facet (AMF) coronoid height and bone loss. To achieve this, we sought to understand normal coronoid height across a large patient cohort, and whether the new technique was sensitive at detecting bone loss in patients with a fracture.METHODS163 CT scans were manually formatted in the plane of the proximal ulna. A best fit circle was drawn in the greater sigmoid notch (GSN) on the sagittal section. The Coronoid Coverage Height (CCH) was defined as the distance (in mm) measured at 90° from the GSN floor to a line between the olecranon and coronoid tips (or fracture base in fractured coronoids) bisecting the center of the circle. The Coronoid Height Index (CHI) was calculated as a % by dividing the CCH by the diameter of the circle. Measurements were performed at the coronoid apex and the center of the AMF in 108 intact coronoids to understand normative values, and 55 fractured coronoids to assess sensitivity of the technique at detecting bone loss. Measurements were independently performed by two investigators and inter-observer reliability was assessed with Weighted Cohen's Kappa (ĸ) and Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC).RESULTSFor intact coronoids, the mean CCH was 11.4 ± 1.4mm at the apex and 11.6 ± 1.3mm at the AMF. The mean CHI was 56.7 ± 4.9% at the apex and 41.1 ± 3.6% at the AMF.For fractured coronoids, the mean CCH and CHI were significantly lower (p<0.001) at both the apical (9.7 ± 1.4mm, 45.8% ± 6.5%) and AMF (9.8 ± 1.6mm, 33.9% ± 6.5%) positions, confirming that the technique was capable of detecting coronoid bone loss.While the CCH (a metric measurement) was significantly higher in men than in women (p<0.001), the CHI (a proportion) demonstrated no significant difference at both the apex (p=0.06) and AMF (p=0.91).Inter-observer reliability was good to excellent across all parameters.CONCLUSIONCHI is a reliable CT-based technique to assess coronoid height and bone loss that is independent of patient size and can be used for clinical and research purposes.
BackgroundThis study reports the detailed management and outcomes of women treated with Primary Endocrine Therapy (PET) in a large prospective UK cohort of older women (≥70) with breast cancer.MethodsThis was an unplanned secondary analysis of a prospective, multicentre, observational study (The Age Gap study). Data were collected at baseline and regular intervals on patient, tumour and treatment characteristics with tumour RECIST response category recorded. Direct study follow-up was 24 months with longer-term survival data obtained from the UK cancer registry.ResultsThe Age Gap study recruited 3316 women across 56 breast units. Primary endocrine therapy (PET) was initiated for 505/3316 (15 %) women; median age was 84 (IQR 79–88) with median follow-up 41.9 months (IQR 27–60). Death occurred in 205/505(40.6 %) patients, 160/205; 78 % non- Breast Cancer related, 45/205; 21.9 % Breast Cancer related. Multivariate analysis identified older age (HR-1.055(95 % Confidence Interval: 1.029–1.084); P < 0.001) and higher Charlson Index (HR-1.166 (1.086–1.252); P < 0.001) as risk factors for all-cause mortality, but conversion to surgery (HR-0.372(0.152–0.914); P = 0.031) was protective. Grade 3 cancer (G1 vs G3 HR-0.28 (0.094–0.829); P = 0.022 & G2 vs G3 HR-0.469 (0.226–0.973); P = 0.042), axillary positivity (axilla positivity HR-2.548 (1.321–4.816); P = 0.005) and change of endocrine therapy (HR-3.010 (1.532–5.913); P = 0.001) were associated with worse breast cancer specific survival (BCSS). RECIST category was not significantly associated with either overall survival or BCSS (P > 0.05).ConclusionEarly disease response and change of endocrine therapy are not significantly associated with overall survival, conversion to surgery is linked to improved outcome. Prognosis is largely determined by age and comorbidity in older women treated with PET.
Bedded barite, Fe-Zn-Pb sulfides, carbonates, and cherts within Ediacaran (Dalradian Supergroup) graphitic metasediments near Aberfeldy in Scotland have previously been interpreted as chemical sediments precipitated from hydrothermal fluids episodically exhaled into marine basins filled with organic-rich mud, silt, and sand. Lithological variation and compositional diversity in pyrite and sphalerite reflect varied redox environments and proximity to hydrothermal discharges. Thick beds (&gt;2 m) of barite have relatively uniform δ34S of +36 ± 1.5‰, considered to represent contemporaneous seawater sulfate, as negative Δ17O indicates incorporation of atmospheric oxygen during precipitation in the water column. However, certain features suggest that diagenetic processes involving microbial sulfate reduction modified the mineralogy and isotopic composition of the mineralization. Barite bed margins show decimeter-scale variation in δ34S (+32 to +41‰) and δ18O (+8 to +21‰), attributed to fluid-mediated transfer of dissolved barium and sulfate between originally porous barite and adjacent sediments, in which millimetric sulfate crystals grew across sedimentary lamination. Encapsulated micron-sized barium carbonates indicate early diagenetic barite dissolution with incorporation of sulfur into pyrite, elevating pyrite δ34S. Subsequently, sulfidation reactions produced volumetrically minor secondary barite with δ34S of +16 to +22‰. Overall, these processes affected small volumes of the mineralization, which originally formed on the seafloor as a classic SEDEX deposit.
Better metrics to compare the impact of different antimicrobials on the gut microbiome would aid efforts to control antimicrobial resistance (AMR).The Antibiotic Resistance in the Microbiome – Oxford (ARMORD) study recruited inpatients, outpatients and healthy volunteers in Oxfordshire, UK, who provided stool samples for metagenomic sequencing. Data on previous antimicrobial use and potential confounders were recorded. Exposures to each antimicrobial were considered as factors in a multivariable linear regression, also adjusted for demographics, with separate analyses for those contributing samples cross-sectionally or longitudinally. Outcomes were Shannon diversity and relative abundance of specific bacterial taxa ( Enterobacteriaceae , Enterococcus , and major anaerobic groups) and antimicrobial resistance genes (targeting beta-lactams, tetracyclines, aminoglycosides, macrolides, and glycopeptides).225 adults were included in the cross-sectional analysis, and a subset of 79 patients undergoing haematopoietic stem cell transplant provided serial samples for longitudinal analysis. Results were largely consistent between the two sampling frames. Recent use of piperacillin-tazobactam, meropenem, intravenous co-amoxiclav and clindamycin were associated with large reductions in microbiome diversity and reduced abundance of anaerobes. Exposure to piperacillin-tazobactam and meropenem were associated with a decreased abundance of Enterobacteriaceae , and an increased abundance of Enterococcus and major AMR genes, but there was no evidence that these antibiotics had a greater impact on microbiome diversity than iv co-amoxiclav or oral clindamycin. In contrast, co-trimoxazole, doxycycline, antifungals and antivirals had less impact on microbiome diversity and selection of AMR genes.Simultaneous estimation of the impact of over 20 antimicrobials on the gut microbiome and AMR gene abundance highlighted important differences between individual drugs. Some drugs in the WHO Access group (co-amoxiclav, clindamycin) had similar magnitude impact on microbiome diversity to those in the Watch group (meropenem, piperacillin-tazobactam) with potential implications for acquisition of resistant organisms. Metagenomic sequencing can be used to compare the impact of different antimicrobial agents and treatment strategies on the commensal flora.
Better metrics to compare the impact of different antimicrobials on the gut microbiome would aid efforts to control antimicrobial resistance (AMR).The Antibiotic Resistance in the Microbiome – Oxford (ARMORD) study recruited inpatients, outpatients and healthy volunteers in Oxfordshire, UK, who provided stool samples for metagenomic sequencing. Data on previous antimicrobial use and potential confounders were recorded. Exposures to each antimicrobial were considered as factors in a multivariable linear regression, also adjusted for demographics, with separate analyses for those contributing samples cross-sectionally or longitudinally. Outcomes were Shannon diversity and relative abundance of specific bacterial taxa ( Enterobacteriaceae , Enterococcus , and major anaerobic groups) and antimicrobial resistance genes (targeting beta-lactams, tetracyclines, aminoglycosides, macrolides, and glycopeptides).225 adults were included in the cross-sectional analysis, and a subset of 79 patients undergoing haematopoietic stem cell transplant provided serial samples for longitudinal analysis. Results were largely consistent between the two sampling frames. Recent use of piperacillin-tazobactam, meropenem, intravenous co-amoxiclav and clindamycin were associated with large reductions in microbiome diversity and reduced abundance of anaerobes. Exposure to piperacillin-tazobactam and meropenem were associated with a decreased abundance of Enterobacteriaceae , and an increased abundance of Enterococcus and major AMR genes, but there was no evidence that these antibiotics had a greater impact on microbiome diversity than iv co-amoxiclav or oral clindamycin. In contrast, co-trimoxazole, doxycycline, antifungals and antivirals had less impact on microbiome diversity and selection of AMR genes.Simultaneous estimation of the impact of over 20 antimicrobials on the gut microbiome and AMR gene abundance highlighted important differences between individual drugs. Some drugs in the WHO Access group (co-amoxiclav, clindamycin) had similar magnitude impact on microbiome diversity to those in the Watch group (meropenem, piperacillin-tazobactam) with potential implications for acquisition of resistant organisms. Metagenomic sequencing can be used to compare the impact of different antimicrobial agents and treatment strategies on the commensal flora.
Biomolecules play critical roles in all core functions of our body and thus are useful biomarkers for various disease states. Electrochemical sensing approaches have been widely developed for monitoring biomolecules. In recent years, three-dimensional (3D) printing. Fused Filament Fabrication (FFF) has emerged as a useful approach in making electrochemical sensors as it offers precise batch production at a low cost. This review intends to highlight how the use of FFF printing has provided the ability to develop electrochemical sensors of various geometry for the detection of important biomolecules, which has provided the improved ability to interface within biological environments. This has been achieved through unique sensor design, modification of commercial filaments as well as the production of bespoke in-house filaments. These recent developments have showcased the large promise 3D printing offers in the development of electrochemical sensors, which can broaden the horizon for biomedical analysis.
Blood pressure is a vital hemodynamic marker during the neonatal period. However, normative values are often derived from small observational studies. Understanding the normative range would help to identify ideal thresholds for intervention to treat hypotension or hypertension. Therefore, the aim of this study was to assess observed blood pressure values in neonates who have not received any blood-pressure modifying treatments from birth to three months postnatal age and whether these vary according to birth weight, gestational age and postnatal age.
Cancer treatments are advancing to harness the body’s immune system against tumours, aiming for lasting effects. This progress involves combining potent chemotherapy drugs with immunogens to kill cancer cells and trigger lasting immunity. Developing new prodrugs that integrate both chemotherapy and immune-boosting elements could significantly improve anticancer outcomes by activating multiple mechanisms to kill cancer cells. While bacterial polysaccharides are typically not used in therapy due to their immune-stimulating properties, we propose a safe application of an extremophilic bacterial polysaccharide, Mauran (MR), modified with the anticancer drug 5-fluorouracil (5FU) to create a novel prodrug. This obtained prodrug, chloracetyl-MR-5FU, is specifically targeted using gold nanocages to CD133+ glioma cells. Test results have shown a high encapsulation efficiency of the drug during the polysaccharide modification process; its anticancer activity was demonstrated in vitro and the release of the prodrug was demonstrated in ex vivo studies.
Care home residents are vulnerable to severe outcomes from infections such as COVID-19 and influenza. However, measures to control outbreaks, such as care home closures to visitors and new admissions, have a detrimental impact on their quality of life. Many infections and outbreaks could be prevented but the first step is to measure them reliably. This is challenging in care homes due to the lack of data and research infrastructure. During the pandemic, the VIVALDI study measured COVID-19 infections in residents and staff by partnering with care providers and using routinely collected data. This study aims to establish sentinel surveillance and a research database to enable observational and future interventional studies in care homes. The project has been co-produced with care providers, staff, residents, relatives, and researchers. The study (October 2023 to March 2025) will explore the feasibility of establishing a network of 500-1500 care homes for older adults in England that is underpinned by a linked data platform. No data will be collected from staff. The cohort will be created by regularly extracting resident identifiers from Digital Social Care Records (DSCR), followed by pseudonymisation and linkage to routinely collected datasets. Following extensive consultation, we decided not to seek informed consent from residents for data collection, but they can 'opt out' of the study. Our goal is to be inclusive, and it is challenging to give every resident the opportunity to 'opt in' due to cognitive impairment and the requirement for consultees. The project, and all requests to use the data will be overseen by relatives, residents, staff, and care providers. The study has been approved by the Health Research Authority Confidentiality Advisory Group (23/CAG/0134&0135) and the South-West Frenchay Research Ethics Committee (23/SW/0105). It is funded by the UK Health Security Agency.
Catheter ablation, consisting of pulmonary vein isolation (PVI), is the most effective treatment modality for the management of symptomatic patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). Unfortunately, this procedure has a considerable relapse rate, ranging from 15 to 50% depending on AF type and other patient factors. Hypertension (HTN) is associated with a higher risk of developing AF and can also be managed with a catheter-based procedure-renal denervation (RDN). This meta-analysis aimed to compare the effect of PVI with and without RDN in hypertensive patients with AF.
Cellulitis is often treated with antibiotics for longer than recommended by guidelines. Prolonged therapy may reduce recurrence in certain patients, but it is not known which patients are at greatest risk. Our objective was to develop and temporally validate a risk prediction score to identify patients attending hospital with cellulitis at highest risk of recurrence.
Changes in the molar fraction of the volatile component R114 during the evaporation of an R114/R21 refrigerant mixture film falling over a vertical heated cylinder are investigated both experimentally and numerically. Experiments were performed for inlet molar fractions of the volatile component in the range 4 to 16%. When heat was added to the flowing film from the wall, a decrease in the molar fraction of the volatile component in the mixture was observed. The results of experiments are analysed using the one-dimensional (1D) model of multi-component liquid film heating/evaporation. In that model, the liquid film is assumed to be flat which allows us to use the 1D forms of the heat transfer and component diffusion equations. The analytical solutions to these equations are used at each timestep of the analysis. The analytical solutions to these equations at the end of the previous timestep are used as the initial conditions for the following timestep with adjusted values of the input parameters. This model is shown to be applicable to the analysis of flows at Reynolds numbers (based on the film thickness) less than about 78.
Chronic inflammatory diseases are increasing in developed societies, thus new anti-inflammatory approaches are needed in the clinic. Synthetic peptides complexes can be designed to mimic the activity of anti-inflammatory mediators, in order to alleviate inflammation. Here, we evaluated the anti-inflammatory efficacy of tethered peptides mimicking the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) and the heat-shock protein 70 (HSP70). We tested their biocompatibility and anti-inflammatory activity in vitro in primary human monocytes and differentiated macrophages activated with two different stimuli: the TLR agonists (LPS + IFN-γ) or Pam3CSK4. Our results demonstrate that IL-1Ra and HSP70 synthetic peptides present a satisfactory biocompatible profile and significantly inhibit the secretion of several pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8, IL-1β and TNFα). We further confirmed their anti-inflammatory activity when peptides were coated on a biocompatible material commonly employed in surgical implants. Overall, our findings support the potential use of IL-1Ra and HSP70 synthetic peptides for the treatment of inflammatory conditions.
Classified as marine debris, man made materials are polluting the world's oceans. Recently, glass reinforced plastic (GRP) has been shown to degrade and contaminate the coasts. In this pioneering study, fibreglass particles have been detected in the soft parts of oysters and mussels collected from natural populations, in front of an active boatyard. The presence of particulate glass, with concentrations up to 11,220 particles/kg ww in Ostrea edulis and 2740 particles/kg ww in Mytilus edulis, was confirmed by micro Raman spectroscopy. The results showed higher accumulation during the winter months, when boat maintenance activities are peaking and, through repair work, the release of glass fibres in the environment is more likely. Bivalves are considered high risk species due to their sessile nature and extensive filter feeding behaviour. The microparticle inclusion may contribute to adverse impacts on physiological processes and eventually to a decline in the overall health and subsequent death of the animal. The high costs involved in the proper GRP disposal and the lack of recycling facilities worldwide lead to boat abandonement and further contamination of the coasts. For the first time this study presents the extensive fibreglass contamination of natural bivalve populations, in a popular South England sailing harbour, designated a biological and geological site of specific scientific interest (SSRI).
Coastlines are projected to face unprecedented pressures over the next century due to climate change-induced changes in sea level, storm, wave, and tidal regimes. This projection of increasing pressure is driving a reappraisal of existing shoreline management practices, with both science and policy calling for future strategies to work with the natural protection provided by coastal habitats such as salt marshes. However, we currently lack the understanding of long-term ecosystem dynamics required to incorporate these habitats into the definitive predictions of risk relied on in coastal protection planning. Satellite remote sensing has the potential to provide data that could address this knowledge gap with its frequent repeat times and global coverage facilitating the production of high temporal frequency time-series over large areas. This study sought to explore this potential in one of the largest coastal plain estuaries the in the UK, the Severn Estuary. The Random Forest machine learning algorithm was used to develop a time-series of marsh extents across the estuary from 1985 to 2020 in Google Earth Engine, with widths also extracted as a proxy for the marshes’ protective capacity. These changes were monitored in six areas that contained the most significant areas of salt marsh across the estuary. This analysis revealed a significant increasing trend in extent and widths (p < 0.05), and therefore natural coastal protection, in three of the six areas over the study period, with validation testing finding an overall accuracy for the classification of >90% and a strong agreement found between the detected widths and those found in previous surveys. These findings demonstrate that satellite remote sensing combined with machine learning has the potential to provide valuable insights into changes in the extents of marshes and therefore their protective capacity. This information can be useful in the coastal planning process, allowing decision-makers to assess the sustainability of existing defences fronted by marshes, as well as allowing them to make informed decisions about the location of restoration schemes.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) imposes a significant healthcare burden globally, prompting the quest for innovative biomarkers to enhance diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. This study investigates the G-protein signaling modulator (GPSM) family across several cancers and presents a comprehensive pan-cancer analysis of the GPSM2 gene across several gastrointestinal (GI) cancers. Leveraging bioinformatics methodologies, we investigated GPSM2 expression patterns, protein interactions, functional enrichments, prognostic implications, genetic alterations, and immune infiltration associations. Furthermore, the expression of the GPSM2 gene was analyzed using real-time analysis. Our findings reveal a consistent upregulation of GPSM2 expression in all GI cancer datasets analyzed, suggesting its potential as a universal biomarker in GI cancers. Functional enrichment analysis underscores the involvement of GPSM2 in vital pathways, indicating its role in tumor progression. The prognostic assessment indicates that elevated GPSM2 expression correlates with adverse overall and disease-free survival outcomes across multiple GI cancer types. Genetic alteration analysis highlights the prevalence of mutations, particularly missense mutations, in GPSM2. Furthermore, significant correlations between GPSM2 expression and immune cell infiltration are observed, suggesting its involvement in tumor immune evasion mechanisms. Collectively, our study underscores the multifaceted role of GPSM2 in GI cancers, particularly in CRC, emphasizing its potential as a promising biomarker for prognosis and therapeutic targeting. Further functional investigations are warranted to elucidate its clinical utility and therapeutic implications in CRC management.
Concerns exist regarding increased toxicities, including endocrine therapy toxicity, with concurrent radiation and endocrine therapy in early breast cancer (EBC). We present a pragmatic, randomized trial comparing concurrent versus sequential endocrine and radiotherapy in hormone-responsive EBC. In this multicenter trial, patients were randomized to receive adjuvant endocrine therapy concurrent with, or sequential to, radiotherapy. The primary outcome was change in endocrine therapy toxicity from baseline to 3 months post radiotherapy using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Endocrine Symptom (FACT-ES) score. From September 2019 to January 2021, 133 patients were randomized to concurrent endocrine and radiotherapy, and 127 to sequential treatment. Most patients were post-menopausal (72.7%, 189/260) with stage 1 disease (65.8%, 171/260). Tamoxifen was the endocrine therapy of choice for 69.6% (181/260) of patients, and an aromatase inhibitor for the remainder. The median total radiation dose and fractions were 40.1 Gray (range 26-50) and 15 fractions (range 5-25), respectively. For the primary outcome of change in endocrine therapy toxicity per FACT-ES scores from baseline to 3 months post radiotherapy, no significant difference was found between the groups (median [range] = -4.9 (-82, 38.8) for concurrent and -5.1 (-42, 40) for sequential,
COVID-19-related social lockdowns had profound consequences in all aspects of social life, yet technology’s role in mediating relationships during lockdown has received little attention. Drawing on a survey of 565 young adults in the UK, we used mixed methods to explore (a) differences in technology use by people in serious romantic relationships (cohabiting vs. living apart together), casual relationships or single; and (b) how COVID-19 influenced long-term, serious relationships. For participants in a serious relationship, technology was used as a strategy to facilitate ongoing communication, enabling partners to achieve ‘intimacy from afar’. Qualitative analysis revealed five reasons (more free time, navigating lockdown restrictions, greater boredom, desire for love and miscellaneous) for online dating profile usage changes. People in serious relationships perceived deeper intimate bonds, boundary issues, less physical intimacy, difficulty with lockdown separation and greater negative impact because of COVID-19. Limitations and implications are discussed.
Crises such as COVID‐19 cause uncertainty that intensifies the pressure on public sector auditors, prompting them to question their established practices and routines. At the same time, stakeholders demand higher levels of assurance of public spending during crises. Using sensemaking as a theoretical framework, our paper explores how auditors changed the way they perform auditing activities in response to the uncertainty and instability stemming from the COVID‐19 crisis. Our qualitative survey of auditors of Italian municipalities shows that before the crisis auditors focused on compliance; however, in the face of time and information shortcomings as a result of the crisis, auditors collaborated more with municipalities. After the crisis, in an attempt to reclaim independence, auditors withdrew collaboration. At the same time, they imagined a different future in which they would implement auditing processes in a way that made clear their independence. The paper contributes to the literature on auditing by shedding light on how auditors make sense of their role and the activities performed during the main phases of crises. Moreover, it advances theoretical understanding by elucidating how sensemaking processes are developed throughout the main phases of a crisis. At a practical level, this study may help auditors envisage how to adjust their roles and activities at times of crisis in ways that maintain high audit quality levels.
Cross-adaptation (CA) refers to the successful induction of physiological adaptation under one environmental stressor (e.g., heat), to enable subsequent benefit in another (e.g., hypoxia). This systematic review and exploratory meta-analysis investigated the effect of heat acclimation (HA) on physiological, perceptual and physical performance outcome measures during rest, and submaximal and maximal intensity exercise in hypoxia. Database searches in Scopus and MEDLINE were performed. Studies were included when they met the Population, Intervention, Comparison, and Outcome criteria, were of English-language, peer-reviewed, full-text original articles, using human participants. Risk of bias and study quality were assessed using the COnsensus based Standards for the selection of health status Measurement INstruments checklist. Nine studies were included, totalling 79 participants (100 % recreationally trained males). The most common method of HA included fixed-intensity exercise comprising 9 ± 3 sessions, 89 ± 24-min in duration and occurred within 39 ± 2 °C and 32 ± 13 % relative humidity. CA induced a moderate, beneficial effect on physiological measures at rest (oxygen saturation: g = 0.60) and during submaximal exercise (heart rate: g = −0.65, core temperature: g = −0.68 and skin temperature: g = −0.72). A small effect was found for ventilation (g = 0.24) and performance measures (peak power: g = 0.32 and time trial time: g = −0.43) during maximal intensity exercise. No effect was observed for perceptual outcome measures. CA may be appropriate for individuals, such as occupational or military workers, whose access to altitude exposure prior to undertaking submaximal activity in hypoxic conditions is restricted. Methodological variances exist within the current literature, and females and well-trained individuals have yet to be investigated. Future research should focus on these cohorts and explore the mechanistic underpinnings of CA.
Curcumin has antioxidant properties and has been proposed as a potential treatment for NAFLD. The aim of current systematic review and meta-analysis was to evaluate previous findings for the effect of curcumin supplementation on glycaemic indices, lipid profile, blood pressure, inflammatory markers, and anthropometric measurements of NAFLD patients. Relevant studies published up to January 2024 were searched systematically using the following databases: PubMed, SCOPUS, WOS, Science Direct, Ovid and Cochrane. The systematic review and meta-analysis were conducted according to the 2020 PRISMA guidelines. The quality of the papers was assessed the using the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) Critical Appraisal Checklist. Pooled effect sizes were calculated using a random-effects model and reported as the WMD and 95% CI. Also, subgroup analyses were done to find probable sources of heterogeneity among studies. Out of 21010 records initially identified, 21 eligible RCTs were selected for inclusion in a meta-analysis. Overall, 1191 participants of both genders, 600 in the intervention and 591 in the control group with NAFLD were included. There are several limitations in the studies that were included, for instance, the results are weakened substantially by potential bias or failure to account for potential adulteration (with pharmaceuticals) or contamination (with other herbs) of the curcumin supplements that were tested. However, previous studies have reported curcumin to be a safe complementary therapy for several conditions. Our study indicated that curcumin supplementation in doses of 50−3000 mg/day was associated with significant change in FBG [WMD: −2.83; 95% CI: −4.61, −1.06), I2 = 51.3%], HOMA-IR [WMD: −0.52; 95% CI: −0.84, −0.20), I2= 82.8%], TG [WMD: −10.31; 95% CI: −20.00, −0.61), I2 = 84.5%], TC [WMD: −11.81; 95% CI: −19.65, −3.96), I2 = 94.6%], LDL [WMD: −8.01; 95% CI: −15.79, −0.24), I2 = 96.1%], weight [WMD: −0.81; 95% CI: −1.28, −0.35), I2= 0.0%] and BMI [WMD: −0.35; 95% CI: −0.57, −0.13), I2= 0.0%] in adults with NAFLD. There was no significant change in HbA1C, plasma insulin, QUICKI, HDL, SBP, DBP, CRP, TNF-α and WC after curcumin therapy. Subgroup analysis suggested a significant changes in serum FBG, TG, SBP, WC in RCTs for intervention durations of ≥ 8 weeks, and SBP, TG, LDL, HDL, BMI, WC in RCTs with sample size > 55 participants. Curcumin supplementation in doses of 50−3000 mg/day over 8–12 weeks was associated with significant reductions in levels of FBG, HOMA-IR, TG, TC, LDL, weight and BMI in patients with NAFLD. Previous studies have reported curcumin as a safe complementary therapy for several diseases. We would suggest that should curcumin supplements be used clinically in specific conditions, it should be used with caution. Also, difference in grades of NAFLD may effect the evaluated outcomes, so it is suggested that future studies be conducted with an analyses on subgroups according to their NAFLD grade. Furthermore, because of the failure to conduct independent biochemical assessment of the turmeric/curcumin product used in most studies as well as potential sources of bias, results should be interpreted with caution.
Dengue shock (DS) is the most severe complication of dengue infection; endothelial hyperpermeability leads to profound plasma leakage, hypovolaemia and extravascular fluid accumulation. At present, the only treatment is supportive with intravenous fluid, but targeted endothelial stabilising therapies and host immune modulators are needed. With the aim of prioritising potential therapeutics, we conducted a prospective observational study of adults (≥16 years) with DS in Vietnam from 2019–2022, comparing the pathophysiology underlying circulatory failure with patients with septic shock (SS), and investigating the association of biomarkers with clinical severity (SOFA score, ICU admission, mortality) and pulmonary vascular leak (daily lung ultrasound for interstitial and pleural fluid). Plasma was collected at enrolment, 48 hours later and hospital discharge. We measured biomarkers of inflammation (IL-6, ferritin), endothelial activation (Ang-1, Ang-2, sTie-2, VCAM-1) and endothelial glycocalyx breakdown (hyaluronan, heparan sulfate, endocan, syndecan-1). We enrolled 135 patients with DS (median age 26, median SOFA score 7, 34 required ICU admission, 5 deaths), together with 37 patients with SS and 25 healthy controls. Within the DS group, IL-6 and ferritin were associated with admission SOFA score (IL-6: βeta0.70, p&lt;0.001 &amp; ferritin: βeta0.45, p&lt;0.001), ICU admission (IL-6: OR 2.6, p&lt;0.001 &amp; ferritin: OR 1.55, p&lt;0.001) and mortality (IL-6: OR 4.49, p = 0.005 &amp; ferritin: OR 13.8, p = 0.02); both biomarkers discriminated survivors and non-survivors at 48 hours and all patients who died from DS had pre-mortem ferritin ≥100,000ng/ml. IL-6 most strongly correlated with severity of pulmonary vascular leakage (R = 0.41, p&lt;0.001). Ang-2 correlated with pulmonary vascular leak (R = 0.33, p&lt;0.001) and associated with SOFA score (β 0.81, p&lt;0.001) and mortality (OR 8.06, p = 0.002). Ang-1 was associated with ICU admission (OR 1.6, p = 0.005) and mortality (OR 3.62, p = 0.006). All 4 glycocalyx biomarkers were positively associated with SOFA score, but only syndecan-1 was associated with ICU admission (OR 2.02, p&lt;0.001) and mortality (OR 6.51, p&lt;0.001). This study highlights the central role of hyperinflammation in determining outcomes from DS; the data suggest that anti-IL-1 and anti-IL-6 immune modulators and Tie2 agonists may be considered as candidates for therapeutic trials in severe dengue.
Depression and anxiety are common comorbid conditions associated with cancer, however the risk factors responsible for the onset of depression and anxiety in cancer patients are not fully understood. Also, there is little clarity on how these factors may vary across the cancer phases: diagnosis, treatment and depression. We aimed to systematically understand and synthesise the risk factors associated with depression and anxiety during cancer diagnosis, treatment and survivorship. We focused our review on primary and community settings as these are likely settings where longer term cancer care is provided. We conducted a systematic search on PubMed, PsychInfo, Scopus, and EThOS following the PRISMA guidelines. We included cross-sectional and longitudinal studies which assessed the risk factors for depression and anxiety in adult cancer patients. Quality assessment was undertaken using the Newcastle-Ottawa assessment checklists. The quality of each study was further rated using the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Standards. Our search yielded 2645 papers, 21 of these were eligible for inclusion. Studies were heterogenous in terms of their characteristics, risk factors and outcomes measured. A total of 32 risk factors were associated with depression and anxiety. We clustered these risk factors into four domains using an expanded biopsychosocial model of health: cancer-specific, biological, psychological and social risk factors. The cancer-specific risk factors domain was associated with the diagnosis, treatment and survivorship phases. Multifactorial risk factors are associated with the onset of depression and anxiety in cancer patients. These risk factors vary across cancer journey and depend on factors such as type of cancer and individual profile of the patients. Our findings have potential applications for risk stratification in primary care and highlight the need for a personalised approach to psychological care provision, as part of cancer care.
Depression in older adults is associated with decreased quality of life and increased utilization of healthcare services. Behavioral activation (BA) is an effective treatment for late-life depression, but the cost-effectiveness compared to treatment as usual (TAU) is unknown. An economic evaluation was performed alongside a cluster randomised controlled multicenter trial including 161 older adults (≥65 years) with moderate to severe depressive symptoms (PHQ-9 ≥ 10). Outcome measures were depression (response on the QIDS-SR), quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and societal costs. Missing data were imputed using multiple imputation. Cost and effect differences were estimated using bivariate linear regression models, and statistical uncertainty was estimated with bootstrapping. Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves showed the probability of cost-effectiveness at different ceiling ratios. Societal costs were statistically non-significantly lower in BA compared to TAU (mean difference (MD) -€485, 95 % CI -3861 to 2792). There were no significant differences in response on the QIDS-SR (MD 0.085, 95 % CI -0.015 to 0.19), and QALYs (MD 0.026, 95 % CI -0.0037 to 0.055). On average, BA was dominant over TAU (i.e., more effective and less expensive), although the probability of dominance was only 0.60 from the societal perspective and 0.85 from the health care perspective for both QIDS-SR response and QALYs. Although the results suggest that BA is dominant over TAU, there was considerable uncertainty surrounding the cost-effectiveness estimates which precludes firm conclusions.
Despite overwhelming international evidence of elevated rates of poor mental health in LGBTQ+ youth compared to their cis-heterosexual peers, we know relatively little about effective mental health services for this population group. This study aims to produce the first early intervention model of "what works" to support LGBTQ+ youth with emerging mental health problems. Utilizing a mixed method case study, we collected data across 12 UK mental health service case study sites that involved: (
Despite the approval of several novel targeted therapies since 2017, acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) remains a devastating disease with high rates of relapse and a dismal prognosis. The heterogeneity of AML and poor tolerance of chemotherapeutic agents by the elderly necessitates that further treatment options are required. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is a form of adoptive cell-transfer based immunotherapy that leverages the use of genetically modified T cells to direct antigen specific cytotoxicity. Anti-CD19 and anti-B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) CAR T-cell therapy have demonstrated remarkable therapeutic efficacy in B cell lymphomas and leukaemias and in multiple myeloma respectively. However, the clinical utility of CAR T-cell therapy has not yet extended to other malignancies. In the case of AML, this has been particularly hindered by a lack of suitable targeting antigens that specifically eliminate leukaemic cells whilst sparing normal healthy haematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs). In this review, we highlight the pertinent challenges and barriers to effective CAR T-cell therapy in AML, as well as recent strategies to overcome them.
Diabetes mellitus is a metabolic disorder caused by a dysfunction in insulin action or secretion, leading to an elevation in blood glucose levels. It is a highly prevalent condition and as a result, the NHS spends 10 % of its entire budget on diabetes mellitus care, that is equivalent to £10 billion a year. Diabetes mellitus has been linked with vascular and neurological complications which may be associated with the progression of neurodegeneration and Alzheimer's disease. Chronic hyperglycaemia increases the production of the reactive oxidant species (ROS) such as methylglyoxal (MGO). MGO has been linked with vascular complications, neuropathy and cytotoxicity. The main aim of this study was to investigate the potential beneficial effect of antidiabetic agents such as metformin and dapagliflozin on human brain neuronal cells (SH-SY5Y) treated with MGO. SH-SY5Y cells were cultured in DMEM/F12 media and subjected overnight incubation with one of the following treatment conditions: Control (untreated); MGO (1 μM); MGO (100 μM); metformin (100 μM) + MGO (100 μM); and dapagliflozin (10 μM) + MGO (100 μM). Several assays were conducted to explore the effect of the treatment groups on the SH-SY5Y cells. These included: MTT assay; LDH assay, peroxynitrite fluorescence assay, and laser scanning confocal microscopy. MGO (100 μM) led to significant cell injury and damage and significantly reduced the survival of the cells by approximately 50–75 %, associated with significant increase in peroxynitrite. The addition of metformin (100 μM) or dapagliflozin (10 μM) represented significant protective effects on the cells and prevented the cell damage caused by the high MGO concentration. As a result, the findings of this research reveal that MGO-induced cell damage may partly be mediated by the generation of peroxynitrite, while the antidiabetic agents such as metformin and dapagliflozin prevent brain cell death, which potentially may play prophylactic roles against the risk of dementia in diabetic patients.
Digital technologies play an increasing role in intimate couple relationships, prompting new approaches to better understand the contemporary digital relationship landscape. This article uses feminist new materialist assemblage thinking to explore the functioning and processes of a relationship support app, Paired. Deploying diffractive analysis, it presents three composite narratives that explore the temporality of couple relationships, relationship work and situated practices of coupledom. Composite narratives retain the emotional truth of original accounts through combined participant voices, enabling attention to be focused on the user–relationship–app assemblage. Findings suggest that routinised app notifications prompt meaningful everyday relationship maintenance behaviours. Human–technology intra-actions thus generate positive relationship health and wellbeing behaviours which may have lasting benefits. This article’s contributions are therefore largely methodological and conceptual, with analysis of supplementary primary interview data (n=20) derived from a mixed-methods evaluation, including brief longitudinal surveys over three months (n=440) and a detailed survey (n=745).
Dissociation is a transdiagnostic mental health symptom involving a sense of detachment from one’s own body. A coherent percept of our body relies upon the smooth integration of different senses, such as vision and touch, which are processed by the brain at different speeds. In a N=100 non-clinical sample, we used Virtual Reality to investigate sensory-integration by systematically lengthening a delay to an immersive visual feed on a head-mounted display, resulting in visual information being delayed relative to other senses (e.g. touch). Larger delays were associated with self-reported feelings of dis-ownership from the body, and participants with high trait dissociation were more sensitive to delay, suggesting an increased tendency to ‘fraction’ senses. Moreover, individuals with higher dissociation displayed similar cardiac reactivity to both self and other touch. These findings highlight two key mechanisms underlying dissociation; altered sensory-integration and distinct processing of self and other touch.
DNA mismatch repair (MMR) is essential for the detection and replacement of single-nucleotide mismatches that occur during cell replication. Loss of function of MMR proteins (germ line) is the underlying cause of Lynch syndrome and is seen in a proportion of sporadic colorectal cancers (CRC), either through somatic mutation or methylation. Deficiency of MMR activity (dMMR) results in accumulation of single-nucleotide variants and frameshifts, high rates of mutation and variation in the repetitive microsatellite regions found within the genome – known as high microsatellite instability [1].
Dr. Russell Davies is a largely forgotten pioneer of both post-operative theatre recovery but also a key figure in the establishment of anaesthetics services in Yugoslavia in the late 1940s. Davies spent the majority of his career working as an anaesthetist at Queen Victoria Hospital, East Grinstead, Sussex, England, later being promoted to the head anaesthetist role. Davies set up one of the first recovery wards in the United Kingdom at Queen Victoria Hospital, the ward being named after him in 1989. Here he became a founding member of the Guinea Pig Club, alongside Dr. Archibald McIndoe. The Guinea Pig Club was founded in 1941 to support airmen in the Second World War undergoing plastic surgery at Queen Victoria Hospital. Davies was crucial to the pastoral care of the Club, providing clinical care and guiding members over access to pensions they would have previously been denied. Little is recognised of Davies's achievement of establishing anaesthetics services in Yugoslavia. Davies and his contributions have been largely overlooked. Davies should be considered one of the foremost British anaesthetists of the 20th century.
Drawing on research into medical gloves global value chains (GVCs), this article examines the interacting roles that states differently positioned in GVCs have played in preventing and eliminating forced labour. Our case study, based on a worker survey and semi-structured interviews across GVC actors, focuses on forced labour in the Malaysian medical gloves sector during the COVID-19 pandemic, linking production in Malaysia, end markets in the UK (primarily through procurement for the National Health Service) and migrant-sending countries, especially Nepal. We analyze the intermeshing effects of the different roles of states, operating at either the horizontal or vertical level of GVC governance, in terms of contributing to issues of forced labour. We identify three state roles in the Malaysia–UK medical gloves chain: producer state (Malaysia), migrant-sending state (Nepal) and regulator-buyer state (UK). We also identify some of the most persistent barriers to resolving forced labour in the value chain. Our research illustrates that Malaysia’s complex regulatory, political and institutional dynamics most directly influence forced labour in gloves production, but Nepal’s migration policies and the UK’s healthcare procurement practices also create forced labour risk in Malaysia. Advancing Gereffi and Lee’s (2016: 25) notion of “synergistc governance” and Jessop’s (2016) strategic-relational approach (SRA) to the state, we thus argue that the creation of sustained and positive regulatory synergies among states differently positioned in GVCs is necessary for the prevention and elimination of forced labour.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a progressive X‐linked neuromuscular disorder caused by the absence of functional dystrophin protein. In addition to muscle, dystrophin is expressed in the brain in both neurons and glial cells. Previous studies have shown altered white matter microstructure in patients with DMD using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). However, DTI measures the diffusion properties of water, a ubiquitous molecule, making it difficult to unravel the underlying pathology. Diffusion‐weighted spectroscopy (DWS) is a complementary technique which measures diffusion properties of cell‐specific intracellular metabolites. Here we performed both DWS and DTI measurements to disentangle intra‐ and extracellular contributions to white matter changes in patients with DMD. Scans were conducted in patients with DMD (15.5 ± 4.6 y/o) and age‐ and sex‐matched healthy controls (16.3 ± 3.3 y/o). DWS measurements were obtained in a volume of interest (VOI) positioned in the left parietal white matter. Apparent diffusion coefficients (ADCs) were calculated for total N ‐acetylaspartate (tNAA), choline compounds (tCho), and total creatine (tCr). The tNAA/tCr and tCho/tCr ratios were calculated from the non‐diffusion‐weighted spectrum. Mean diffusivity (MD), radial diffusivity (RD), axial diffusivity (AD), and fractional anisotropy of water within the VOI were extracted from DTI measurements. DWS and DTI data from patients with DMD (respectively n = 20 and n = 18) and n = 10 healthy controls were included. No differences in metabolite ADC or in concentration ratios were found between patients with DMD and controls. In contrast, water diffusion (MD, t = −2.727, p = 0.011; RD, t = −2.720, p = 0.011; AD, t = −2.715, p = 0.012) within the VOI was significantly higher in patients compared with healthy controls. Taken together, our study illustrates the potential of combining DTI and DWS to gain a better understanding of microstructural changes and their association with disease mechanisms in a clinical setting.
Dynamic energy analysis accurately studies the buildings' thermal behaviour but requires consistent data. The study started with an analysis of the most commonly used occupancy profile databases available. Six were selected, and the impact of database choice was assessed by the simulation of a standard building using EnergyPlus, under different climatic conditions of Reykjavik, London, and Madrid. Nine types of building use profiles were simulated. The resulting energy consumption varied depending on the database used, with percentage differences up to 4000%-6000%, with average differences for cities falling within the range of 500% to 1000%, within the same building use category. Such discrepancies are highlighted as an issue to the wider use of building performance simulation in building design, a solution is proposed by harmonizing all assessed databases into a newly defined one, considered a more robust alternative for application in dynamic energy simulations, especially in the early stages of design.
e u r olo gy 2 0 (2) , p p .
Edge et al explore the current concerns and ongoing debate around the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) Future Nurse: Standards of proficiency for registered nurses (2018). This article looks at the impact of the standards on changes to pre-registration children's nursing education, exploring the impact on ensuring students are equipped with the right knowledge and skills to meet children, young people and their families' needs. Central to the discussion is the importance of hearing the voice of children and young people, and families are considered central to the ongoing discussion that is integral in shaping our future nursing workforce.
EDITORIAL article Front. Sociol., 05 March 2024Sec. Sociology of Emotion Volume 9 - 2024 | https://doi.org/10.3389/fsoc.2024.1388509
Educational Development activity is pivotal to the sustenance of academic citizenship within the academy, with Educational Developers integral to supporting academic staff to engage with citizenship pursuits and making significant contributions of their own. However, the nature of this contribution to the operation of the university and the broader academic community has not yet been explored in the literature. This qualitative study investigated how Educational Developers navigate their roles, balancing teaching enhancement activities with broader contributions to nurturing citizenship. Findings indicate an opportunity to shape the expectations of citizenship for Educational Developers and integrate them into their evolving professional identity.
Efflux of antibiotics is an important survival strategy in bacteria.
Emotional feelings are putatively ascribed to central representation of bodily states in the context of expectation and uncertainty in both internal state and external world. Neurodivergent people are more likely to experience co-occurring mental health challenges, although mechanistic insights underpinning this association are scarce. We therefore undertook a study to test whether imprecise processing of proprioceptive error signals may underlie the connection between neurodivergence and emotional dysregulation. In a cohort of people with complex chronic conditions, including chronic pain/fatigue, and complex trauma, and in a comparison group, we assessed presence of neurodivergence, variant connective tissue manifested through joint hypermobility, and emotional dysregulation. We present a data-informed conceptual model showing that variant connective tissue determines whether proprioceptive surprise is linked with emotional dysregulation in neurodivergent individuals. We suggest that future research in this area may have important clinical implications for the interaction of mental and physical wellbeing in neurodivergent people. This article is part of the theme issue ‘Sensing and feeling: an integrative approach to sensory processing and emotional experience’.
Enterochromaffin (EC) cells located within the intestinal mucosal epithelium release serotonin (5-HT) to regulate motility tones, barrier function and the immune system. Electroanalytical methodologies have been able to monitor steady state basal extracellular 5-HT levels but are unable to provide insight into how these levels are influenced by key regulatory processes such as release and uptake. We established a new measurement approach, amperometry approach curve profiling, which monitors the extracellular 5-HT level at different electrode-tissue (E-T) distances. Analysis of the current profile can provide information on contributions of regulatory components on the observed extracellular 5-HT level. Measurements were conducted from ex vivo murine ileum and colon using a boron-doped diamond (BDD) microelectrode. Amperometry approach curve profiling coupled with classical pharmacology demonstrated that extracellular 5-HT levels were significantly lower in the colon when compared to the ileum. This difference was due to a greater degree of activity of the 5-HT transporter (SERT) and a reduced amount of 5-HT released from colonic EC cells. The presence of an inhibitory 5-HT
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are pivotal in cell-to-cell communication due to the array of cargo contained within these vesicles. EVs are considered important biomarkers for identification of disease, however most measurement approaches have focused on monitoring specific surface macromolecular targets. Our study focuses on exploring the electroactive component present within cargo from EVs obtained from various cancer and non-cancer cell lines using a disk carbon fiber microelectrode. Variations in the presence of oxidizable components were observed when the total cargo from EVs were measured, with the highest current detected in EVs from MCF7 cells. There were differences observed in the types of oxidizable species present within EVs from MCF7 and A549 cells. Single entity measurements showed clear spikes due to the detection of oxidizable cargo within EVs from MCF7 and A549 cells. These studies highlight the promise of monitoring EVs through the presence of varying electroactive components within the cargo and can drive a wave of new strategies towards specific detection of EVs for diagnosis and prognosis of various diseases.
Female genital schistosomiasis (FGS) and male genital schistosomiasis (MGS) are gender-specific manifestations of urogenital schistosomiasis. Morbidity is a consequence of prolonged inflammation in the human genital tract caused by the entrapped eggs of the waterborne parasite,
Flat plate Loop Heat Pipes (LHPs) have emerged as an attractive battery thermal management system (BTMS) as they allow long-distance heat transfer at no power cost due to their unique porous structure. Additionally, the flat contacting surface is suitable for end cooling in cylindrical cells due to the higher axial thermal conductivity of the jelly roll structure. Previous studies on LHP BTMS have mainly focused on the cooling performance of prismatic or pouch cells, without considering cell ageing. This study instead numerically investigates the cooling performance, the resulting current distribution, and the ageing of a 6S4P 18650 battery module equipped with LHPs BTMS, comparing the performance against a natural air convection BTMS. This study has taken various thicknesses of the heat collector plate (i.e. 0.5 mm, 1 mm, 2 mm and 3 mm) and the number of LHPs (i.e. 1 or 2) into consideration. The results indicate that utilising a single LHP in conjunction with a 2 mm thick heat collector plate emerges as the optimal configuration. This design achieves a maximum average temperature of 29.7 °C and a minimal temperature gradient of 0.02 °C under a 1C discharge condition. The proposed design also significantly enhances battery lifespan, reaching up to 310 cycles with a maximum ageing gradient of 0.005, compared to the 146 cycles and 0.04 ageing gradient observed for the module with natural air convection. This study presents the potential of LHP BTMS for future electric vehicles, demonstrating its superior effectiveness in enhancing battery performance and longevity.
Flexible fiber-based microelectrodes allow safe and chronic investigation and modulation of electrically active cells and tissues. Compared to planar electrodes, they enhance targeting precision while minimizing side effects from the device-tissue mechanical mismatch. However, the current manufacturing methods face scalability, reproducibility, and handling challenges, hindering large-scale deployment. Furthermore, only a few designs can record electrical and biochemical signals necessary for understanding and interacting with complex biological systems. In this study, we present a method that utilizes the electrical conductivity and easy processability of MXenes, a diverse family of two-dimensional nanomaterials, to apply a thin layer of MXene coating continuously to commercial nylon filaments (30-300 μm in diameter) at a rapid speed (up to 15 mm/s), achieving a linear resistance below 10 Ω/cm. The MXene-coated filaments are then batch-processed into free-standing fiber microelectrodes with excellent flexibility, durability, and consistent performance even when knotted. We demonstrate the electrochemical properties of these fiber electrodes and their hydrogen peroxide (H
Fossil fuel subsidies remain a persistent problem notwithstanding multiple international commitments to phase them out. A new approach is needed to ensure commitments account for, and help overcome, domestic barriers to fossil fuel subsidy reform. This new approach should comprise time-bound roadmaps, steps to close existing loopholes, and support for lower-income countries.
Funded by UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), the Constructing a Digital Environment Strategic Priorities Fund (CDE) programme aspired to support the development of a comprehensive ‘digital environment’ ecosystem that best served scientists, policymakers, businesses, and communities. Emphasising multi-disciplinary and inter-disciplinary collaboration, CDE supported a team of challenge-focused researchers from a variety of disciplines to bring to the fore current and future digital advances in sensors that are critical to addressing environmental concerns. From March 2023 to January 2024, the team worked together to develop frameworks that sought to optimise the benefits of both existing and emerging sensor network technologies and their related infrastructure.
Gender-affirming hormone treatment (GAHT) is an intervention aimed at aligning transgender individuals' hormone levels with their gender identity, thereby alleviating gender dysphoria through modifications to secondary sex characteristics. However, to effectively promote skeletal health, it is crucial to consider the potential adverse effects of GAHT. A previous meta-analysis observed no significant effect of GAHT femoral neck (FN), lumbar spine (LS) or total hip (TH) bone mineral density (BMD) in transgender women. In transgender men, LS BMD showed a significant benefit (ES: 0.04 – 0.06 g•cm-2). However, since that analysis more data have been published and updated methods of meta-analysis have been developed; therefore, an updated systematic review and meta-analysis are warranted. Methods and analysis: Literature published in English up to 31/07/24 will be retrieved by searching 3 electronic databases, cross-referencing and expert review. The primary outcome measures will be changes in FN and LS BMD and lower limb BMD. The risk of bias for each study will be assessed using the Cochrane Risk of Bias instrument for non-randomised control trials (ROBINS-I), while the strength of evidence for each outcome will be assessed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) instrument. Standardised effect sizes will be calculated from each study and pooled using the inverse heterogeneity (IVhet) model. Prospero Trial Registration number: [CRD42024573102].
Genes exist in a population in a variety of forms (alleles), as a consequence of multiple mutation events that have arisen over the course of time. In this work we consider a locus that is subject to either multiplicative or additive selection, and has n alleles, where n can take the values 2, 3, 4,
Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is an inflammatory vascular disease in which prompt and accurate diagnosis is critical. The efficacy of temporal artery biopsy (TAB) is limited by 'skip' lesions and a delay in histological analysis. This first-in-man ex-vivo study aims to assess the accuracy of optical frequency domain imaging (OFDI) in diagnosing GCA.
Groundwater flow and contaminant migration tracing is a vital method of identifying and characterising pollutant source-pathway-receptor linkages in karst aquifers. Bacteriophages are an attractive alternative tracer to non-reactive fluorescent dye tracers, as high titres (&gt;1012 pfu mL−1) can be safely released into the aquifer, offering improved tracer detectability. However, the interpretation of bacteriophage tracer breakthrough curves is complicated as their fate and transport are impacted by aquifer physicochemical conditions. A comparative tracer migration experiment was conducted in a peri-urban catchment in southeast England to characterise the behaviour of MS2 bacteriophage relative to sodium fluorescein dye in a karstic chalk aquifer. Tracers were released into a stream sink and detected at two abstraction boreholes located 3 km and 10 km away. At both sites, the loss of MS2 phage greatly exceeded that of the solute tracer. In contrast, the qualitative shape of the dye and phage breakthrough curves were visually very similar, suggesting that the bacteriophage arriving at each site was governed by comparable transport parameters to the non-reactive dye tracer. The colloid filtration theory was applied to explain the apparent contradiction of comparable tracer breakthrough patterns despite massive phage losses in the subsurface. One-dimensional transport models were also fitted to each breakthrough curve to facilitate a quantitative comparison of the transport parameter values. The model results suggest that the bacteriophage migrates through the conduit system slightly faster than the fluorescent dye, but that the former is significantly less dispersed. These results suggest that whilst the bacteriophage tracer cannot be used to predict receptor concentrations from transport via karstic flow paths, it can provide estimates for groundwater flow and solute contaminant transit times. This study also provides insight into the attenuation and transport of pathogenic viruses in karstic chalk aquifers.
Half of the world's children experience violence every year, but the meaning of violence is not universally agreed. We may therefore risk failing to measure, and address, the acts that matter most to children and adolescents. In this paper, we describe and synthesise evidence on how children and adolescents in sub-Saharan Africa conceptualise different behavioural acts which are deemed violence in childhood under WHO and UN CRC definitions.
Head-to-head data for bictegravir/emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide (BIC/F/TAF; B) and darunavir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide (DRV/c/F/TAF; D) are lacking in the context of rapid antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation. This study, BIC-T&T, evaluates the efficacy and tolerability of B vs D in a UK test-and-treat setting.
High temperatures in rotating machinery and machining processes necessitate effective thermal management for improving efficiency. Radial rotating oscillating heat pipes (RR-OHPs) have shown potential in enhancing heat transfer during rotating machinery operation. To facilitate the application of RR-OHPs in rotating machinery, an accurate prediction of their thermal performance is essential. This paper proposes a so-called "fusion prediction model" that combines an algorithm called GA-LightGBM and grey prediction techniques to accurately predict the thermal performance of RR-OHPs under different parameters. The GA-LightGBM optimizes hyperparameters globally though population iteration, while grey prediction explores systematic patterns using limited information. The combination of these algorithms results in a high-precision prediction with a relative error of 10%. The dataset for the model is obtained by an experiment under varying heat inputs and rotating speeds. To illustrate the application of the fusion model, we study the design of an OHP grinding wheel for enhanced heat transfer in grinding processes. The results confirm the high thermal performance of the OHP grinding wheel maintaining the maximum grinding temperature below 300 °C. Overall, this proposed prediction model is expected to expand the application of RR-OHPs and provide valuable guidance for their implementation in engineering.
Hybrid AD strains of the human pathogenic Cryptococcus neoformans species complex have been reported from many parts of the world. However, their origin, diversity, and evolution are incompletely understood. In this study, we analyzed 102 AD hybrid strains representing 21 countries on five continents. For each strain, we obtained its mating type and its allelic sequences at each of the seven loci that have been used for genotyping haploid serotypes A and D strains of the species complex by the Cryptococcus research community. Our results showed that most AD hybrids exhibited loss of heterozygosity at one or more of the seven analyzed loci. Phylogenetic and population genetic analyses of the allelic sequences revealed multiple origins of the hybrids within each continent, dating back to one million years ago in Africa and up to the present in other continents. We found evidence for clonal reproduction and long-distance dispersal of these hybrids in nature. Comparisons with the global haploid serotypes A and D strains identified new alleles and new haploid multi-locus genotypes in AD hybrids, consistent with the presence of yet-to-be discovered genetic diversity in haploid populations of this species complex in nature. Together, our results indicate that AD hybrids can be effectively genotyped using the same multi-locus sequencing type approach as that established for serotypes A and D strains. Our comparisons of the AD hybrids among each other as well as with the global haploid serotypes A and D strains revealed novel genetic diversity as well as evidence for multiple origins and dynamic evolution of these hybrids in nature.
Importance Cognitive decline and depressive symptoms often co-occur among older adults, and they share several mechanisms. Despite the fact that cognitive dysfunction has been linked to increased depressive symptoms, the directionality of this association remains unclear. Objective To examine whether there is a bidirectional association between depressive symptoms and cognitive function in English adults aged 50 years or older throughout a 16-year follow-up period. Design, Setting, and Participants This cohort study included a nationally representative sample of community-dwelling English adults aged 50 years or older. The current analysis included 8268 eligible participants with relevant data. These participants were examined every other year from 2002 and 2003 until 2018 and 2019, resulting in a follow-up period of up to 16 years. Data were analyzed from July to November 2023. Main Outcomes and Measures The bivariate dual change score models were used to estimate the multivariable associations between depressive symptoms and cognitive function, which were interchangeably used as exposures and outcomes. Cognitive measures include memory and verbal fluency tests, while the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale evaluated depressive symptoms. Results The study population of 8268 participants had a mean (SD) age of 64 (10) years at the study baseline, and 4517 participants (55%) were female. Higher depressive symptoms were cross-sectionally associated with poorer memory (β intercept, −0.018; standard error [SE], 0.004; P &amp;amp;lt; .001) and verbal fluency (β intercept, −0.009; SE, 0.004; P = .02) at study baseline. A steeper linear change in depressive symptoms was associated with an accelerated memory change (β intercept, −0.253; SE, 0.079; P = .001), and a linear change in memory was associated with an acceleration in depressive symptoms over time (β intercept, 0.016; SE, 0.006; P = .005). This bidirectional change was not observed with verbal fluency. Conclusions and Relevance In this study, greater depressive symptoms were associated with poorer memory at the study baseline and steeper memory change over time. A gradual linear change in depressive symptoms contributed to accelerated memory loss and vice versa, suggesting that psychological mood and memory performance are intrinsically associated.
In 1944, U. S. Camera Company, the force behind one of the largest circulation photography magazines, launched Camera Comics for children. At the heart of every ten-cent issue was Kid Click, a teenage "shutterbug" whose camera helped him overcome bullies at summer camp, to uncover Nazi spy rings, and to bring armed robbers to justice. The character provided a neat segue to the rotogravure illustrated and textual pages of Camera Comics that offered photographic guidance for children, including tips for building camera gadgets at home and winning school competitions. Photographs by "typical American boys" – real-life Kid Clicks – abutted camera advertisements aimed at the same. Camera Comics imagined and addressed US child photographers via a distinctive set of gendered and nationalistic narratives, offering an illuminating comic-themed case study in a much wider and longer story of how cultural expectations of cameras and children have been ideologically constructed to intersect. This article offers a close reading of the extant nine issues of the comic and a comparison with parallel issues of U. S. Camera magazine, along with other primary sources that aligned children with photography in the period. These are contextualised with secondary literature on comics, photographic history, and childhood studies. Ultimately, the article argues that Camera Comics offers a highly productive space for surveying cultural expectations made of children in mid-century USA, and especially the conflicting moral attributes applied to different media forms and tools directed at children as cultural consumers and producers.
In an international policy environment of intensified high-stakes accountability, pupil assessment data are an invaluable commodity and critical indicator of both school and teacher effectiveness. Teachers' engagement with pupil data and the associated experiences of increased accountability are of great consequence, and highly contentious for perceptions and experiences of policy. In the context of the English primary school, this paper explores the progressively tactical nature of teachers' enactment of assessment policy, and the impetus to 'make the data look good'. It draws upon an empirical study of rich qualitative data from 42 interviews with 22 primary teachers employed in the South-East of England. The findings add to an evolving field about 'gaming', and particular consequences for teacher identity are discussed. The paper further advances insights about teachers' experiences of 'in-school assessment' as pertinent for understanding gaming. It locates the pupil progress meeting as an iteration of teacher accountability and performativity, and particular site of contestation, and a specific contribution to knowledge in this regard.
In intensive and critical care settings, stabilizing patients and saving lives are often, justifiably, given priority over other considerations. Yet, there are also important psychological and emotional aspects that affect patients, their families and health care providers. Indeed, stress, uncertainty and strong emotions may be overwhelming for all those involved in the recovery and rehabilitation from critical illness. This issue of Nursing in Critical Care looks at the psychological and emotional facets of critical care, underscoring the need for empathy, resilience and holistic support. By casting a spotlight on these aspects, we aim to promote a better understanding and more compassionate care that addresses both the physical and emotional needs during and after critical illness. Our previous issue featured a guest editorial1 discussing the value and implications of undertaking peer reviews for critical care nursing journals. The guest editorial for the current issue2 elaborates on this important topic by proposing strategies that various stakeholders involved in publication may take to improve the efficiency and excellence of peer review. To illustrate these recommendations, it makes reference to concrete examples from this and other journals. Besides the guest editorial, this issue features 20 articles: 14 research articles – 10 of which employed a qualitative methodology – three short reports, two review articles and one service evaluation. Two qualitative studies explored care providers' experiences of working in disaster zones, with one exploring the experiences of intensive care unit (ICU) nurses who provided care to victims of the Kahramanmaraş earthquakes in Türkiye in 2023,3 and another4 exploring the lived experiences of Iranian critical care nurses deployed to battlefields in Syria between 2014 and 2020, both of which provide an insight into critical care nursing at its most extreme. Another paper5 explored critical care professionals' perspectives on the barriers to and facilitators of post-ICU follow up services in China. Similarly, another Chinese study6 explored ICU nurses' perspectives on the barriers and facilitators of palliative care in adult ICUs. Jucker et al.7 explored nurses' attitudes on the use and purpose of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in paediatric and neonatal ICUs in Switzerland, described the ethically challenging situations they encounter and explored key challenges in managing these situations from a nursing perspective. Shaw et al.8 used the enhanced critical incident technique to explore the challenges to workplace well-being in paediatric critical care and what helps and hinders those challenges. Besides nurses and other care professionals, qualitative research articles in this issue of Nursing in Critical Care also explored the experience of patients and their families. Gu et al.9 explored the dyadic coping experiences of ICU transfer patients and their spouses. Bazzano et al.10 interviewed family members of deceased ICU patients in Italy to investigate the role of ICU diaries in the grief process experienced by family members. Abdollahimohammad et al.11 explored the experiences of family members with loved ones hospitalized in ICUs. Glæemose et al.12 explored patients' and relatives' experiences of post-intensive care peer support in Denmark. The short report by Miller et al.13 also employed qualitative methodology to explore how ICU nurse leaders recognize and address moral distress among their staff in the United States. The current issue also includes a variety of empirical quantitative research. In their cohort study, Wang et al.14 investigated the risk factors of post intensive care syndrome and developed a mental disorders dynamic nomogram for post-ICU patients. Sert et al.15 employed a structural equation modelling approach to examine the association between occupational fatigue, inter-shift recovery, perceived compassion competence and caring behaviour of ICU nurses. Özden and Parlar Kılıç16 used a general multivariate regression analysis to find out predictors of ICU nurses' conscientious intelligence and palliative care practice. Kaplan et al.17 examined the correlations between spiritual care needs and satisfaction levels of relatives of ICU patients. The short report by Colville and Pierce18 presented a secondary analysis of data on the post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms of parent–child dyads to investigate the pattern of symptom trajectories in this population. The short report by Liang et al.19 translated, cross-culturally adapted and validated the Chinese version of the Healthy Aging Brain Care Monitor Self-Report tool. Following the theme of psychological support, a service evaluation of post-ICU psychological support during the COVID-19 pandemic, featured in this issue,20 is a reminder of the ongoing impact on services still being experienced. Another timely topic explored in this issue is quality of life for both ICU patients and their families; in this issue, this is explored through a systemic review by Gravante et al.21 This issue concludes with a qualitative thematic synthesis exploring memory making in critical care conducted by MacEachen and colleagues.22 With psychological and emotional aspects of critical care as the overarching theme, this fourth issue of Nursing in Critical Care for 2024 features a broad selection of papers covering numerous methodologies from various countries. We trust that you will find these papers insightful, thought provoking and transferable to your practice. Data sharing is not applicable to this article as no new data were created or analyzed in this study.
In mobile edge computing systems, a task offloading approach should balance efficiency, adaptability, trust management, and reliability. This approach aims to maximize resource utilization, improve user experience, and satisfy application-specific requirements while taking into account the dynamic and limited resource nature of edge environments. Additionally, while offloading tasks, these systems are vulnerable to several attacks and privacy breaches, necessitating edge node trust evaluation. However, not all of these necessary features are present in the offloading methods currently used. This research proposes ‘EDITORS’ (Energy-efficient DynamIc Task Offloading method utilising Deep Reinforcement Transfer Learning (DRTL) in Software-Defined Network (SDN) enabled edge computing environments), a novel approach aimed at addressing the multifaceted issues associated with offloading in mobile edge computing systems. The primary goal of EDITORS is to design a task offloading system that incorporates trusted edge nodes while prioritizing energy efficiency, timeliness, reliability, adaptability, and outperforming existing task offloading methods in terms of the quality of the task offloading plan. This method uses of DRTL agents at edge nodes, which communicate with the SDN controller to learn the most appropriate offloading choices based on network conditions and resource availability. Extensive simulations (six) are conducted which show that the EDITORS significantly increases energy efficiency while preserving low-latency task completion compared to five existing offloading methods (DDLO, DROO, DMRO, DRL without TL and SDN and DRL with SDN). EDITORS includes trust evaluation, trusted edge device prediction using LSTM, and adaptation of newly added devices through transfer learning, unlike other task offloading methods that just concentrate on task offloading.
In the original publication, ref [...]
In this article I report on the novel use of arts-based research to explore the lives of experimental animals in Ivan Pavlov's physiological and psychological studies. I describe the collaborative production of two artefacts - a graphic novel and a public art installation consisting of a series of three-dimensional scale models. Both artefacts were designed to reimagine and re-present the detail of the lives and treatment of the dogs in Pavlov's care, as entangled in wider human-animal relationships and events. I discuss the arts-based research process involved and reflect on the outcomes in relation to two objectives: to bring critical developments of 'the animal turn', animal studies and the posthumanities into contact with Psychology as a discipline; and to contribute to the development of methods concerned with addressing the complexity of human-animal and multispecies relationships. Finally I consider the broader potential of arts-based research for challenging anthropocentrism and fostering alternatives.
In this paper, a physics-informed neural network (PINN) technique is developed to study the heat and mass transfer for the process of vapour bubble growth in a superheated liquid domain and tested using three working fluids including water, R-134a and FC-72. The work represents a novel step in the development of PINNs for phase change scenarios where surface tension effects dominate, and acts as a necessary validation stage before PINN techniques can be applied to complex boiling analysis. Initially, a forward analysis was performed using water and R-134a as working fluids. For each of these investigations, the PINN algorithm was trained on 50 % of the available CFD data. The proposed algorithm was able to accurately infer velocity fields, particularly in the near-interfacial region. The resultant circulatory flow was found to maintain the desired circular shape of the growing bubbles. As a result, when predicting the evolution of a water vapour bubble, the developed PINN algorithm produced a reduction in peak error by 0.87 % compared to CFD reference data, and 3.42 % reduction in peak error for prediction of the evolution of the R-134a vapour bubble. To test and optimise the transfer learning capabilities of the developed methodology, the evolution of an FC-72 vapour bubble in superheated FC-72 was predicted without supplying supporting observational data. For this scenario, the PINN algorithm produced a peak error within 1.3 % of the unobserved CFD reference data. The proposed approach confirms the robustness of PINN methodologies as a method of solving phase-change problems where surface tension plays a pivotal, promising to expedite parametric studies in practice. This study represents a pioneering effort in the development of PINNs for phase change by applying the current algorithm to investigate bubble growth within superheated liquid domains, serving as a basis for the application of PINNs for boiling problems and as a benchmark for inverse training strategy.
In this work, a new three phase cavitation model with Eulerian–Lagrangian Spray Atomization (ELSA) and Interface Capturing Method (ICM) coupling is presented to allow for, in a unified approach, physical insight of the surface evolution of cavitating sprays at the Sub-Grid Scale (SGS). Phase change is accounted for in the framework via mass transfer across a liquid and corresponding vapor phase. The surface density model was validated against direct numerical simulation data of an atomizing jet with a systematic variation of mesh resolutions. The sensitivity of the adjustable parameters such as the critical Weber number was also demonstrated. Then, experimental comparisons were made with a more realistic orthogonal spray geometry within a cavitating and turbulent non-cavitating system. These comparisons include both large scale visualizations and small scale SGS quantities such as the Sauter mean diameter. To our knowledge, this is the first study that presents the performance of a three phase cavitating framework with SGS ELSA-ICM coupling.
Individuals with diabetes have an elevated risk of depression. The occurrence of the COVID-19 pandemic may have further impacted the mental health of patients living with diabetes. This study aims to examine: 1) factors associated with the development of depression during the COVID-19 pandemic among individuals with diabetes without a history of depression; and 2) factors associated with the persistence or recurrence of depression during the pandemic among those with diabetes, and a pre-pandemic history of depression. Secondary analysis of four waves of the Canadian Longitudinal Study on Aging surveys. Canadian residents between the ages of 45-85 were recruited in 2012-2015 and subsequently completed three follow-up surveys. A total of 2,730 individuals with diabetes were included in this study. Among those without a prior history of depression, the incidence of new depression was 12.9% (95% CI 11.3-14.4%) during the pandemic. Among those with a history of depression, approximately half (48.5%; 95% CI 45.4-51.7%) were depressed during the pandemic. Factors associated with increased risk of incident and recurrent depression during the pandemic among older adults with diabetes include being female, greater educational attainment, higher income/savings, functional limitations, loneliness/social isolation, chronic pain, family conflict, and difficulties accessing health care. Among Canadians living with diabetes, both the incidence and recurrence of depression increased during the pandemic. Even as the widespread pandemic response draws to a close, continued efforts to support the psychological well-being of this population are needed.
Interest in art school histories and the archives that support them has grown over the past decade, yet institutional recordkeeping practices and collecting, where they exist, do not tend to capture the kind of records that are most useful for research into art school pedagogies or their relationship with contemporary art discourse. This article gives an archive studies perspective on the Fine Art Critical Practice (FACP) Archive, a collaborative project to collect archival sources documenting the history of the FACP degree programme at the University of Brighton, UK, to be held at the University of Brighton Design Archives and activated through involvement of the FACP community of staff and students. It considers the records of interest to that community may lie in the context of an art school archive within an institution. It goes on to consider the example of a body of papers received from a former member of FACP staff, Mick Hartney, reflecting on some of the questions raised by this mode of collecting in terms of archival arrangement and knowledge production for the project's future phases.
Introduction A minority of school-aged children with asthma have persistent poor control and experience frequent asthma attacks despite maximal prescribed maintenance therapy. These children have higher morbidity and risk of death. The first add-on biologic therapy, omalizumab, a monoclonal antibody that blocks immunoglobulin (Ig)E, was licensed for children with severe asthma in 2005. While omalizumab is an effective treatment, non-response is common. A second biologic, mepolizumab which blocks interleukin 5 and targets eosinophilic inflammation, was licensed in 2018, but the licence was granted by extrapolation of adult clinical trial data to children. This non-inferiority (NI) trial will determine whether mepolizumab is as efficacious as omalizumab in reducing asthma attacks in children with severe therapy resistant asthma (STRA) and refractory difficult asthma (DA). Methods and analysis This is an ongoing multicentre 1:1 randomised NI open-label trial of mepolizumab and omalizumab. Up to 150 children and young people (CYP) aged 6–17 years with severe asthma will be recruited from specialist paediatric severe asthma centres in the UK. Prior to randomisation, children will be monitored for medication adherence for up to 16 weeks to determine STRA and refractory DA diagnoses. Current prescribing recommendations of serum IgE and blood eosinophils will not influence eligibility or enrolment. The primary outcome is the 52-week asthma attack rate. Bayesian analysis using clinician-elicited prior distributions will be used to calculate the posterior probability that mepolizumab is not inferior to omalizumab. Secondary outcomes include Composite Asthma Severity Index, Paediatric Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire, lung function measures (forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), bronchodilator reversibility), fractional exhaled nitric oxide, Asthma Control Test (ACT), health outcomes EuroQol 5 Dimension (EQ-5D) and optimal serum IgE and blood eosinophil levels that may predict a response to therapy. These outcomes will be analysed in a frequentist framework using longitudinal models. Ethics and dissemination The study has been approved by the South Central—Berkshire Research Ethics Committee REC Number 19/SC/0634 and had Clinical Trials Authorisation from the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) (EudraCT 2019-004085-17). All parents/legal guardians will give informed consent for their child to participate in the trial, and CYP will give assent to participate. The results will be published in peer-reviewed journals, presented at international conferences and disseminated via our patient and public involvement partners. Trial registration number ISRCTN12109108 ; EudraCT Number: 2019-004085-17.
Introduction Globally, a total of almost 4 million people live with podoconiosis in 32 potentially endemic countries including Rwanda. Podoconiosis is a non-infectious geochemical disease that causes massive swelling of the lower leg and is caused by long-term exposure to red clay soil found in tropical highland areas. The disease is a disabling neglected tropical disease (NTD) and is associated with profound stigma, discrimination and comorbid mental health conditions. Treatment interventions are commonly known as morbidity management and disability prevention. Both biomedical and traditional treatments are used by affected people. However, understandings informed by the social sciences of care in the context of NTDs are largely unexplored. This study explored the perspectives and experiences of care among care receivers (podoconiosis patients) and caregivers (family members, traditional healers) in the district of Huye, Rwanda. Method The study used qualitative methods including seventeen InDepth Interviews (eleven patients, two traditional healers, two care professionals, and two family members) and participant observation in a health centre and patients’ houses. Result A caring network was found amongst the podoconiosis patients, their family members, care professionals and traditional healers. Caring network is not only about the medical treatments, but also about the caring relationship amongst them. Discussion Using notions of ‘Network’ and ‘Collectives’, from the care ethics literature the study shows that in addition to care work requiring professional know-how, it is also about the relationships between patients, their families, traditional healers, and biomedical care professionals.
Introduction It is important to promote resilience in preadolescence; however, there is limited research on children’s understandings and experiences of resilience. Quantitative approaches may not capture dynamic and context-specific aspects of resilience. Resilience research has historically focused on white, middle-class Western adults and adolescents, creating an evidence gap regarding diverse experiences of resilience in middle childhood which could inform interventions. East London’s Muslim community represents a diverse, growing population. Despite being disproportionately affected by deprivation and racial and cultural discrimination, this population is under-represented in resilience research. Using participatory and arts-based methods, this study aims to explore lived experiences and perceptions of resilience in black and South Asian Muslim children living in East London. Methods and analysis We propose a qualitative study, grounded in embodied inquiry, consisting of a participatory workshop with 6–12 children and their parents/carers to explore lived experiences and perceptions of resilience. Participants will be identified and recruited from community settings in East London. Eligible participants will be English-speaking Muslims who identify as being black or South Asian, have a child aged 8–12 years and live in East London. The workshop (approx. 3.5 hours) will take place at an Islamic community centre and will include body mapping with children and a focus group discussion with parents/carers to explore resilience perspectives and meanings. Participants will also complete a demographic survey. Workshop audio recordings will be transcribed verbatim and body maps and other paper-based activities will be photographed. Data will be analysed using systematic visuo-textual analysis which affords equal importance to visual and textual data. Ethics and dissemination The Queen Mary Ethics of Research Committee at Queen Mary University of London has approved this study (approval date: 9 October 2023; ref: QME23.0042). The researchers plan to publish the results in peer-reviewed journals and present findings at academic conferences.
Introduction Many people living with dementia experience sleep disturbance and there are no known effective treatments. Non-pharmacological treatment options should be the first-line sleep management. For family carers, relatives’ sleep disturbance leads to interruption of their sleep, low mood and breakdown of care. Our team developed and delivered DREAMS START (Dementia RElAted Manual for Sleep; STrAtegies for RelaTives), a multimodal non-pharmacological intervention, showing it to be feasible and acceptable. The aim of this randomised controlled trial is to establish whether DREAMS START is clinically cost-effective in reducing sleep disturbances in people living with dementia living at home compared with usual care. Methods and analysis We will recruit 370 participant dyads (people living with dementia and family carers) from memory services, community mental health teams and the Join Dementia Research Website in England. Those meeting inclusion criteria will be randomised (1:1) either to DREAMS START or to usual treatment. DREAMS START is a six-session (1 hour/session), manualised intervention delivered every 1–2 weeks by supervised, non-clinically trained graduates. Outcomes will be collected at baseline, 4 months and 8 months with the primary outcome being the Sleep Disorders Inventory score at 8 months. Secondary outcomes for the person with dementia (all proxy) include quality of life, daytime sleepiness, neuropsychiatric symptoms and cost-effectiveness. Secondary outcomes for the family carer include quality of life, sleep disturbance, mood, burden and service use and caring/work activity. Analyses will be intention-to-treat and we will conduct a process evaluation. Ethics and dissemination London—Camden &amp; Kings Cross Ethics Committee (20/LO/0894) approved the study. We will disseminate our findings in high-impact peer-reviewed journals and at national and international conferences. This research has the potential to improve sleep and quality of life for people living with dementia and their carers, in a feasible and scalable intervention. Trial registration number ISRCTN13072268 .
Introduction Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning (MEL) is an integral part of research, programme and policy development and implementation. However, MEL methods used to monitor and evaluate interdisciplinary research projects are often informal and under-reported. This article describes the MEL protocol of the UKRI GCRF Action Against Stunting Hub (AASH). Methods and analysis The AASH conducts interdisciplinary research into childhood stunting in India, Indonesia and Senegal across 23 distinct work packages. Project-specific MEL framework and methods will be implemented. A logframe will be developed to monitor and evaluate the research activities across the field sites including the number of participants recruited, questionnaires, measurements and procedures completed. MEL dashboards using Tableau and Glasscubes will be used to track and report progress, milestones and outcomes of the project. Dashboard outputs will be reported as numbers and percentages, with additional graphs/charts for easy visualisation. A ‘learning’ framework will be developed to outline appropriate pipelines for the dissemination of the research findings. This includes a theory of change explicating the overarching ambitions of the project in influencing policy, practice and research, and strategic engagement of relevant stakeholders to evaluate knowledge, attitudes and best practices for impactful engagement and dissemination of the research findings. Ethics and dissemination Ethical approval was granted by the Ethics Committee of the London School of Hygiene &amp; Tropical Medicine (17915/RR/17513); National Institute of Nutrition (ICMR)–Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India (CR/04/I/2021); Health Research Ethics Committee, University of Indonesia and Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital (KET-887/UN2.F1/ETIK/PPM.00.02/2019); and the National Ethics Committee for Health Research (CNERS), Senegal (Protocole SEN19/78). Findings from this work will be published in peer-reviewed journals, presented in conferences and disseminated to policy makers and research communities.
Introduction Older adults in care homes experienced some of the highest rates of mortality from SARS-CoV-2 globally and were subjected to strict and lengthy non-pharmaceutical interventions, which severely impacted their daily lives. The VIVALDI ASCOT and Ethnography Study aims to assess the impact of respiratory outbreaks on care home residents’ quality of life, psychological well-being, loneliness, functional ability and use of space. This study is linked to the VIVALDI-CT, a randomised controlled trial of staff’s asymptomatic testing and sickness payment support in care homes ( ISRCTN13296529 ). Methods and analysis This is a mixed-methods, longitudinal study of care home residents (65+) in Southeast England. Group 1—exposed includes residents from care homes with a recent COVID-19 or other respiratory infection outbreak. Group 2—non-exposed includes residents from care homes without a recent outbreak. The study has two components: (a) a mixed-methods longitudinal face-to-face interviews with 100 residents (n=50 from group 1 and n=50 from group 2) to assess the impact of outbreaks on residents’ quality of life, psychological well-being, loneliness, functional ability and use of space at time 1 (study baseline) and time 2 (at 3–4 weeks after the first visit); (b) ethnographic observations in communal spaces of up to 10 care homes to understand how outbreaks and related restrictions to the use of space and social activities impact residents’ well-being. The study will interview only care home residents who have the mental capacity to consent. Data will be compared and integrated to gain a more comprehensive understanding of the impact of outbreaks on residents’ quality of life and well-being. Ethics and dissemination The VIVALDI ASCOT and Ethnography Study obtained ethical approval from the Health Research Authority (HRA) Social Care REC (24/IEC08/0001). Only residents with the capacity to consent will be included in the study. Findings will be published in scientific journals.
Introduction Stunting is a significant and growing global problem that is resisting scientific attempts to understand it in terms of direct nutrition-related determinants. In recent years, research included more complex, indirect and multifactorial determinants and expanded to include multisectoral and lifestyle-related approaches. The United Kingdom Research Initiative Global Challenges Research Fund's (UKRI GCRF) Action Against Stunting Hub starts on the premise that dominant factors of stunting may vary between contexts and life phases of the child. Thus, the construction of a typology of clustered factors will be more useful to design effective programmes to alleviate it. The Shared Values theme seeks to build a bottom-up holistic picture of interlinked cultural contextual factors that might contribute to child stunting locally, by first eliciting shared values of the groups closest to the problem and then enquiring about details of their relevant daily activities and practices, to reveal links between the two. We define shared values as what groups consider ‘valuable, worthwhile and meaningful’ to them. Methods and analysis We will recruit 12–25 local stakeholder groups in each site (in India, Indonesia and Senegal) involved in children’s food and early learning environments, such as mothers, fathers, grandmothers, teachers, market vendors and health workers. The WeValue InSitu process will be used to assist them to collectively elicit, negotiate and self-articulate their own shared values through exploration of shared tacit knowledge. Focus group discussions held immediately subsequently will ask about daily activities relevant to the children’s environment. These contain many examples of cultural contextual factors potentially influencing stunting locally, and intrinsically linked to shared values articulated in the previous session.
Introduction Understanding contextual factors that influence the implementation and outcome of interventions is crucial to improving them. Outcome and process evaluation studies have to date focused on the successes and limitations of interventions with little consideration of external factors that could either facilitate or impede them. Guided by the Context and Implementation of Complex Intervention (CICI) framework, we evaluated the effect of contextual factors on a health intervention implemented against the neglected tropical disease (NTD) podoconiosis in Ethiopia. Method We purposefully selected a health intervention jointly implemented by two NGOs in podoconiosis-endemic districts in Northwestern Ethiopia. We employed an exploratory mixed methods approach, and data were collected between April and July 2022. We first conducted document analysis, observations, 4 focus group discussions, 32 in-depth interviews and 19 key informant interviews. Subsequently, we administered a survey to 369 rural residents, of whom 42 were affected by podoconiosis. The qualitative data were managed with NVivo version 12 software. The quantitative data were analyzed using Stata version 15 software. Results Most project activities were implemented as per the initial plan and the intervention reached patients that never had access to treatment services before. Contextual factors (geographical, epidemiological, socio-economic, socio-cultural, ethical, legal and political) and lived experience of patients influenced the implementation and outcome of the intervention. Most of the contextual factors pose constraints on implementation and affected the acceptability and sustainability of project activities. On the other hand, political context such the commitment of the government to rollout national programs and set up NTD structures at district level positively influenced the implementation of the intervention. Conclusion Health intervention implementors should be aware of the interactive effects of contextual factors wherein interventions are put into practice. Minimizing the constraining effects of these contextual factors while utilizing opportunities presented by them might help implement optimal strategies to improve the lives of individuals affected by podoconiosis and similar NTDs.
Introduction We evaluate remote consultation for adult patients referred with recurrent sore throat, measuring the effectiveness of the consultation, satisfaction and environmental impact. Methods Eligible patients were invited to telephone clinics, undertaking a satisfaction survey after consultation, focusing on perceived convenience, satisfaction, cost and travel arrangements (used to calculate potential environmental benefit). Provider opinion was also captured. Results Forty-eight of 60 patients attended, with 38 (63%) eligible for inclusion. Thirty-six of these 38 patients (95%) had a definitive outcome of tonsillectomy (27/38) or discharge (9/38). Thirty-three of the 38 patients (87%) responded to the survey and reported high satisfaction in all arms of questioning (mean Likert ranking = 4.7/5). A mean of 3.76 hours of missed work and 5.17kg carbon dioxide emission equivalents were saved per patient. Provider responses were positive towards ongoing remote consultation use. Conclusions Telephone consultation for adult patients considered for tonsillectomy is convenient to patients in terms of cost and time, reduces environmental harm and is associated with high patient and provider satisfaction.
Introduction: Hyperglycemia constitutes a likely pathway linking diabetes and depressive symptoms; lowering glycemic levels may help reduce diabetes-comorbid depressive symptoms. Since randomized controlled trials can help understand temporal associations, we systematically reviewed the evidence regarding the potential association of hemoglobin HbA1c lowering interventions with depressive symptoms. Methods: PubMed, PsycINFO, CINAHL, and EMBASE databases were searched for randomized controlled trials evaluating HbA1c-lowering interventions and including assessment of depressive symptoms published between 01/2000–09/2020. Study quality was evaluated using the Cochrane Risk of Bias tool. PROSPERO registration: CRD42020215541. Results: We retrieved 1,642 studies of which twelve met our inclusion criteria. Nine studies had high and three unclear risks of bias. Baseline depressive symptom scores suggest elevated depressive symptoms in five studies. Baseline HbA1c was &lt;8.0% (&lt;64mmol/mol) in two, 8.0–9.0% (64–75mmol/mol) in eight, and ≥10.0% (≥86mmol/mol) in two studies. Five studies found greater HbA1c reduction in the treatment group; three of these found greater depressive symptom reduction in the treatment group. Of four studies analyzing whether the change in HbA1c was associated with the change in depressive symptoms, none found a significant association. The main limitation of these studies was relatively low levels of depressive symptoms at baseline, limiting the ability to show a lowering in depressive symptoms after HbA1c reduction. Conclusions: We found insufficient available data to estimate the association between HbA1c reduction and depressive symptom change following glucose-lowering treatment. Our findings point to an important gap in the diabetes treatment literature. Future clinical trials testing interventions to improve glycemic outcomes might consider measuring depressive symptoms as an outcome to enable analyses of this association.
Introduction: Professional identity is a multifaceted conceptual term combining behaviours, knowledge, skills, values, beliefs, contextual and socio-cultural factors with personal and group identity. The historical underpinning of occupational therapy is partly attributed to the difficulties occupational therapists face articulating their unique identity and the profession being misunderstood by others. Little is known about how occupational therapists working in community physical health settings experience their professional identity. Method: Interpretative phenomenological analysis was used to understand how five occupational therapists interpreted and made sense of their experiences of professional identity working in community UK physical health settings. Interviews were carried out following social media recruitment and analysed using interpretative phenomenological analysis guidance. Findings: Participants identified that their professional identity was forged through experiences over time developing skills, confidence and their inner understanding of who they were as an occupational therapists. Maintaining a secure professional identity was attributed to building their community of practice and creating a sense of belonging. Conclusion: Professional identity was forged through time and experience of ‘doing’, ‘being’ and ‘becoming’ occupational therapists. Building a community of practice and creating a sense of ‘belonging’ were key components of how these occupational therapists working in community physical health roles sustained their professional identity.
IntroductionPlacements are a key component of physiotherapy courses; however, placement providers struggle to meet rising demands. To enhance placement capacity, multi-models are increasingly employed, where Universities place more than one student with one educator. Student support on placement is important, and studies exploring multi-placement models reveal educators welcome the peer support possible with this placement pattern. This research explored UK physiotherapy students' perspectives of peer relationships during placements, for which there is yet little research.MethodsEight single, semi-structured interviews were conducted, exploring students' experiences of peer working on placement October to December 2020. Participants and researchers were undergraduate students at the same UK university. Interviews were virtual, recorded via Microsoft Teams and transcribed verbatim. Transcripts were analysed first individually, then collaboratively, sharing ideas and interpretations using a phenomenologically informed analytical lens.ResultsTwo main themes were identified: collaboration vs conflict and supportive vs hindering relationships. Students appreciated the emotional and academic support from peers, but there could be difficulties in generating constructive peer relationships, and sometimes a sense of competition from divided tutor attention.ConclusionMulti-model placements provide social and emotional support to students, increasing their confidence. Peer relationships present opportunities for collaborative working and academic support if they are adequately framed as such by the practice educator and wider team. Students may benefit from university-based support to prepare them to maximise the peer relationship. Practice educators may benefit from information about supporting students in multi-model placements. Student-led research can offer rich qualitative data and helpful educational solutions.Contribution of the Paper StatementThis small project from one UK University produced similar findings as research from other professions: placement peer relationships had the capacity to provide helpful social and emotional support to students, resulting in greater levels of confidence, collaborative working, and learning. However, there were indications that educational institutions could a) further support students to develop their capabilities in cooperative peer working, and b) assist educators to manage the challenges of multi-model placements.
It is increasingly recognised that traditional models of mental health (MH) care, with a service transition at age 18 years, may not reflect best practice. The literature supports a move towards youth and young adult focused models of MH care, for young people up to the age of 25, which specifically cater to the unique psychosocial and developmental needs of this population. This service evaluation aimed to explore the facilitators and barriers to the implementation of youth models of MH care across England (UK).
Key points Laryngoscopy is performed to diagnose and treat diseases of the hypopharynx and larynx Adequate exposure is essential for the procedure and can be limited by a short neck, limited neck extension and other patient factors When standard laryngoscopy biopsy forceps cannot access an area of the pharynx, then flexible pulmonary or gastric biopsy forceps can be used The flexible biopsy forceps can be loaded down a cut intubating bougie to access difficult areas This correspondence explains how to perform this technique and outlines the efficacy
Kink, often referred to as BDSM, is an important aspect of a sizable minority's sexual desires, practices, and personal relationships, yet there are few ways to assess kink engagement in a holistic manner. This study aimed to develop the Kink Orientation Scale (KOS), a novel short tool for measuring different aspects of kink sexuality. In phase one, 27 items were created and included in the initial scale based on a literature review and focus groups with kinky and non-kinky individuals. In phase two, the KOS was administered to 200 university students. Exploratory Factor Analyses (EFA) were used to determine the factor structure and dimensionality of the KOS, and we retained 18 items in the scale and identified five factors. In phase three, the 18 item KOS was administered to a kink sample of 1025 participants as a form of validation. Confirmatory Factor Analyses also identified five factors with a strong overlap to the EFA. The five factors were: kink identity; kink community; kink paraphernalia; kink practices; and sexual communication. The kink sample also provided higher scores on the KOS compared with the non-kink sample. This study shows the potential utility of the KOS in measuring kink engagement holistically.
Lifestyle behaviours have been linked to dementia incidence, but their cumulative impact on dementia and the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study investigated the association of co-occurring lifestyle behaviours with dementia incidence and the mediating role of systemic inflammation in this association. The sample comprised 3,131 participants (55.2% female) from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing aged 52-92 years at baseline (2008/09). Self-reported baseline lifestyle behaviours (alcohol intake, fruit and vegetable consumption, smoking, physical activity, sleep duration, social engagement, and cognitive activity) were summed to derive an index of lifestyle behaviours, ranging from 0 to 7, with higher scores denoting a higher number of health-risk behaviours. Incident dementia cases (n= 130, 4.2%) were identified through doctor-diagnosed dementia, informant interviews, and health records between 2014/15 and 2018/19. Systemic inflammation was measured through fasting plasma concentrations of C-reactive protein in 2012/13. Binary logistic regression models indicated that the odds of subsequent dementia increased by 1.19 for each additional health-risk behaviour (95% confidence intervals: 1.04, 1.37, p= .014) after adjusting for age, sex, ethnicity, wealth, education, marital status, body mass index, coronary heart disease, hypertension, stroke, and depression. However, this association was not mediated by C-reactive protein. Co-occurring health-risk behaviours were associated with higher dementia incidence up to 10 years later, underscoring the importance of modifying health-risk behaviours for the prevention of dementia. Systemic inflammation did not explain the association between behaviours and dementia.
Lifetime measurements of low-lying excited states in the semimagic (<a:math xmlns:a="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><a:mrow><a:mi>N</a:mi><a:mo>=</a:mo><a:mn>50</a:mn></a:mrow></a:math>) nucleus <b:math xmlns:b="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><b:mmultiscripts><b:mi>Rh</b:mi><b:mprescripts/><b:none/><b:mn>95</b:mn></b:mmultiscripts></b:math> have been performed by means of the fast-timing technique. The experiment was carried out using <c:math xmlns:c="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><c:mi>γ</c:mi></c:math>-ray detector arrays consisting of <d:math xmlns:d="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><d:msub><d:mi>LaBr</d:mi><d:mn>3</d:mn></d:msub></d:math>(Ce) scintillators and germanium detectors integrated into the DESPEC experimental setup commissioned for the Facility for Antiproton and Ion Research () Phase-0, Darmstadt, Germany. The excited states in <e:math xmlns:e="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><e:mmultiscripts><e:mi>Rh</e:mi><e:mprescripts/><e:none/><e:mn>95</e:mn></e:mmultiscripts></e:math> were populated primarily via the <f:math xmlns:f="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><f:mi>β</f:mi></f:math> decays of <g:math xmlns:g="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><g:mmultiscripts><g:mi>Pd</g:mi><g:mprescripts/><g:none/><g:mn>95</g:mn></g:mmultiscripts></g:math> nuclei, produced in the projectile fragmentation of a 850 MeV/nucleon <h:math xmlns:h="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><h:mmultiscripts><h:mi>Xe</h:mi><h:mprescripts/><h:none/><h:mn>124</h:mn></h:mmultiscripts></h:math> beam impinging on a <i:math xmlns:i="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><i:mrow><i:mn>4</i:mn><i:mspace width="0.16em"/><i:mi mathvariant="normal">g</i:mi><i:mo>/</i:mo><i:msup><i:mrow><i:mi>cm</i:mi></i:mrow><i:mn>2</i:mn></i:msup><i:mspace width="4pt"/><i:mmultiscripts><i:mi>Be</i:mi><i:mprescripts/><i:none/><i:mn>9</i:mn></i:mmultiscripts></i:mrow></i:math> target. The deduced electromagnetic E2 transition strengths for the <m:math xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><m:mi>γ</m:mi></m:math>-ray cascade within the multiplet structure depopulating from the isomeric <n:math xmlns:n="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><n:mrow><n:msup><n:mi>I</n:mi><n:mi>π</n:mi></n:msup><n:mo>=</n:mo><n:mn>21</n:mn><n:mo>/</n:mo><n:msup><n:mn>2</n:mn><n:mo>+</n:mo></n:msup></n:mrow></n:math> state are found to exhibit strong deviations from predictions of standard shell model calculations which feature approximately conserved seniority symmetry. In particular, the observation of a strongly suppressed E2 strength for the <o:math xmlns:o="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><o:mrow><o:mn>13</o:mn><o:mo>/</o:mo><o:msup><o:mn>2</o:mn><o:mo>+</o:mo></o:msup><o:mo>→</o:mo><o:mn>9</o:mn><o:mo>/</o:mo><o:msup><o:mn>2</o:mn><o:mo>+</o:mo></o:msup></o:mrow></o:math> ground state transition cannot be explained by calculations employing standard interactions. This remarkable result may require revision of the nucleon-nucleon interactions employed in state-of-the-art theoretical model calculations, and might also point to the need for including three-body forces in the Hamiltonian. Published by the American Physical Society 2024
LMTK3 is a brain-specific transmembrane serine/threonine protein kinase that acts as a scaffold for protein phosphatase-1 (PP1). Although LMKT3 has been identified as a risk factor for autism and epilepsy, its physiological significance is unknown. Here, we demonstrate that LMTK3 copurifies and binds to KCC2, a neuron-specific K
Loiasis is an endemic filarial infection in the rainforest zone of West and Central Africa. Repeated annual community-directed treatment with ivermectin (CDTI) delivered for several years to control onchocerciasis has been shown to reduce the prevalence and intensity of Loiasis in some Loa loa-Onchocerca volvulus co-endemic areas. However, the impact of these multiple rounds of CDTI on entomological indicators of loiasis transmission is not known, and was therefore assessed in this study in areas with contrasting histories of CDTI. The study was conducted in the East, North-west and South-west 1 CDTI project sites of Cameroon. Two communities per CDTI project were selected for fly collection and dissection. Ivermectin treatment coverage was documented in these areas, and this was correlated to Chrysops infection and infective rates. A total of 7029 female Chrysops were collected from 6 communities of the 3 CDTI projects (East, North-west, and South-west 1) and from 2 communities in a non-CDTI district (East). Chrysops biting densities and parous rates were significantly reduced in the North-west and South-west sites post-CDTI, while in the East, biting densities were similar in non-CDTI and CDTI sites, with higher parous rates observed in the non-CDTI site. Infection and infective rates in the East non-CDTI site were 4.4% and 1.8% respectively, as compared to 3.3% and 1.3% in the CDTI site after 10 ivermectin rounds (there were no baseline data for the latter). In the North-west site, significant reductions in Chrysops infection and infective rates from 10.2% and 4.2% respectively, to 3.5% and 1.2 (after 9 rounds of ivermectin treatment), were recorded following CDTI. In the South-west, infection rate significantly increased from 1.74% to 2.8% and infective rate remained statistically unchanged after 14 rounds of CDTI (0.45% - 0.40%). Similar trends in Mean Head L3 were observed except in the East site where this indicator was similar in both CDTI and control sites. Only in the North-west site did monthly transmission potentials decrease significantly. This study demonstrated that the impact of repeated annual treatment with ivermectin for the control of onchocerciasis using community directed delivery approach on the entomological indicators of loiasis varies with bioecological zones. Community directed treatment with ivermectin induced a significant reduction in the entomological indicators of loiasis in the North-West project site which lies in forest savanna area. A non-significant decrease was observed in the East project site and in contrast, a significant increase was observed in the South-West 1 project site which both lies in the rainforest zones.
Long‐acting injectable (LAI) cabotegravir and rilpivirine for HIV treatment and LAI cabotegravir for pre‐exposure HIV prophylaxis are being rolled out in a multitude of countries worldwide. Due to the prolonged exposure, it can be challenging to undertake ‘traditional’ pharmacokinetic studies and current guidance is derived from their oral equivalents or physiologically based pharmacokinetic studies. This review aims to consider pharmacokinetic characteristics of cabotegravir and rilpivirine and describe anticipated drug–drug interactions (DDIs) with frequent concomitant medications in African settings. Relevant co‐medications were identified from the WHO 2021 List of Essential Medicines. All original human and physiologically based pharmacokinetic studies published in English on PubMed, discussing DDIs with LAI cabotegravir and rilpivirine prior to April 2023, were reviewed. The Liverpool HIV interaction database was also reviewed ( https://www.hiv-druginteractions.org/checker ). LAI cabotegravir and rilpivirine have half‐lives of 6–12 and 13–28 weeks, respectively. Cabotegravir is primarily metabolized by UDP‐glucuronyltransferase (UGT)‐1A1 and rilpivirine by cytochrome P450 (CYP)‐3A4. LAI cabotegravir and rilpivirine themselves exhibit low risk of perpetrating interactions with co‐medications as they do not induce or inhibit the major drug metabolizing enzymes. However, they are victims of DDIs relating to the induction of their metabolizing enzymes by concomitantly administered medication. Noteworthy contraindicated co‐medications include rifamycins, carbamazepine, phenytoin, flucloxacillin and griseofulvin, which induce CYP3A4 and/or UGT1A1, causing clinically significant reduced concentrations of rilpivirine and/or cabotegravir. In addition to virologic failure, subtherapeutic concentrations resulting from DDIs can lead to emergent drug resistance. Clinicians should be aware of potential DDIs and counsel people receiving LAI cabotegravir/rilpivirine appropriately to minimize risk.
Long-acting injectable (LAI) cabotegravir and rilpivirine for HIV treatment and LAI cabotegravir for pre-exposure HIV prophylaxis are being rolled out in a multitude of countries worldwide. Due to the prolonged exposure, it can be challenging to undertake ‘traditional’ pharmacokinetic studies and current guidance is derived from their oral equivalents or physiologically-based pharmacokinetic studies. This review aims to consider pharmacokinetic characteristics of cabotegravir and rilpivirine and describe anticipated drug-drug interactions (DDIs) with frequent concomitant medications in African settings. Relevant comedications were identified from the WHO 2021 List of Essential Medicines. All original human and physiologically-based pharmacokinetic studies published in English on PubMed, discussing DDIs with LAI cabotegravir and rilpivirine prior to April 2023, were reviewed. The Liverpool HIV interaction database was also reviewed. LAI cabotegravir and rilpivirine have half-lives of 6-12 and 13-28 weeks, respectively. Cabotegravir is primarily metabolised by UDP-glucuronyltransferase (UGT)-1A1 and rilpivirine by cytochrome P450 (CYP)-3A4. LAI cabotegravir and rilpivirine themselves exhibit low risk of perpetrating interactions with comedications as they do not induce or inhibit the major drug metabolising enzymes. However, they are victims of DDIs relating to the induction of their metabolising enzymes by concomitantly administered medication. Noteworthy contraindicated comedications include rifamycins, carbamazepine, phenytoin, flucloxacillin and griseofulvin, which induce CYP3A4 and/or UGT1A1, causing clinically-significant reduced concentrations of rilpivirine and/or cabotegravir. In addition to virologic failure, subtherapeutic concentrations resulting from DDIs can lead to emergent drug resistance. Clinicians should be aware of potential DDIs and counsel people receiving LAI cabotegravir/rilpivirine appropriately to minimise risk.
Macroeconomic factors have a critical impact on banking credit risk, which cannot be directly controlled by banks, and therefore, there is a need for an early credit risk warning system based on the macroeconomy. By comparing different predictive models (traditional statistical and machine learning algorithms), this study aims to examine the macroeconomic determinants’ impact on the UK banking credit risk and assess the most accurate credit risk estimate using predictive analytics. This study found that the variance-based multi-split decision tree algorithm is the most precise predictive model with interpretable, reliable, and robust results. Our model performance achieved 95% accuracy and evidenced that unemployment and inflation rate are significant credit risk predictors in the UK banking context. Our findings provided valuable insights such as a positive association between credit risk and inflation, the unemployment rate, and national savings, as well as a negative relationship between credit risk and national debt, total trade deficit, and national income. In addition, we empirically showed the relationship between national savings and non-performing loans, thus proving the “paradox of thrift”. These findings benefit the credit risk management team in monitoring the macroeconomic factors’ thresholds and implementing critical reforms to mitigate credit risk.
Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) are integral to Indonesia's economy, facing diverse challenges during the pandemic. This paper addresses the hurdles encountered by MSMEs, emphasizing the imperative of bolstering their branding and digital marketing competencies for enduring resilience. Despite their significance, many MSMEs, notably those in rural regions like Karangrejek Village, lack the requisite skills and resources for effective digital platform utilization, necessitating comprehensive support initiatives. Pandemic-induced issues encompass capital constraints and product marketing dilemmas, particularly evident among Karangrejek Village MSMEs. Post-pandemic recovery demands intensified aid to facilitate comprehensive revival, crucial for fostering local economic potential and community welfare enhancement. To address these challenges, a sustainable community service initiative will be launched, focusing on augmenting MSMEs' branding and digital marketing capacities. The program aims to stimulate optimal economic growth, especially in the post-Covid-19 era. It encompasses training sessions on leveraging digital media for product branding, expanding market reach through product marketing strategies, mentorship in product packaging design, and harnessing social media platforms. Through this initiative, MSMEs can fortify their resilience and contribute significantly to the community's economic prosperity.
Microbiology Society journals contain high-quality research papers and topical review articles. We are a not-for-profit publisher and we support and invest in the microbiology community, to the benefit of everyone. This supports our principal goal to develop, expand and strengthen the networks available to our members so that they can generate new knowledge about microbes and ensure that it is shared with other communities.
Misinformation is a growing concern worldwide, particularly in public health following the COVID-19 pandemic in which misinformation has been attributed to tens of thousands of unnecessary deaths. Therefore a search for effective interventions against misinformation is underway, with widely varying proposed interventions, measures of efficacy, and groups targeted for intervention. This realist systematic review of proposed interventions against COVID-19 misinformation assesses the studies themselves, the characteristics and effectiveness of the interventions proposed, the durability of effect, and the circumstances and contexts within which these interventions function. We searched several databases for studies testing interventions published from 2020 onwards. The search results were sorted by eligibility, with eligible studies then being coded by themes and assessed for quality. Twenty-six studies were included, representing eight types of intervention. The results are promising to the advantages of game-type interventions, with other types scoring poorly on either scalability or impact. Backfire effects and effects on subgroups were reported on intermittently in the included studies, showing the advantages of certain interventions for subgroups or contexts. No one intervention appears sufficient by itself, therefore this study recommends the creation of packages of interventions by policymakers, who can tailor the package for contexts and targeted groups. There was high heterogeneity in outcome measures and methods, making comparisons between studies difficult; this should be a focus in future studies. Additionally, the theoretical and intervention literatures need connecting for greater understanding of the mechanisms at work in the interventions. Lastly, there is a need for work more explicitly addressing political polarisation and its role in the belief and spread of misinformation. This study contributes toward the expansion of realist review approaches, understandings of COVID-19 misinformation interventions, and broader debates around the nature of politicisation in contemporary misinformation.
Nanomaterial networks are attractive for a diverse range of printed device applications including electronics, sensing, energy capture and storage. At present, the influence of morphology on the network properties, such as electrical transport, is poorly understood. Here, we develop an understanding of structure-property relationships in these systems by performing size selection from bulk to few-layer graphene. We observe size-dependent electrical conductivity spontaneously during film formation, with the smallest nanosheets realizing electrical conductivity exceeding 105 S/m, a record value for liquid-exfoliated graphene and competitive with electrochemically-exfoliated graphene. Given the high electrical conductivity exhibited by these networks, and the applicability of graphene as a model layered nanosheet system, we explore the use of this size-selected graphene for thermoelectric applications. We interpret our understanding of the high conductivities obtained in terms of nanosheet packing and its influence on the number density and nature of inter-sheet junctions. This work represents an approach to overcome junction-limited electronic transport and enable nanoparticulate networks for printed device applications.
National and international hypertension guidelines recommend that adults with young-onset hypertension (aged <40 years at diagnosis) are reviewed by a hypertension specialist to exclude secondary causes of hypertension and optimise therapeutic regimens. A recent survey among UK secondary care hypertension specialist physicians highlighted variations in the investigation of such patients. In this position statement, the British and Irish Hypertension Society seek to provide clinicians with a practical approach to the investigation and management of adults with young-onset hypertension. We aim to ensure that individuals receive consistent and high-quality care across the UK and Ireland, to highlight gaps in the current evidence, and to identify important future research questions.
Natural hydrogen exploration has been restricted in scope due to the predominance in thinking that various rock interactions with water in cratonic settings offer the best natural hydrogen sources. The limited exploration findings in these areas in conjunction with advances in the understanding of hydrogen generation via anthropogenic methods suggest that other source alternatives such as organic hydrogen generation need to be revisited. The ideas on the maturation of organic matter may need to be reassessed with respect to hydrogen. It is suggested that an overlapping thermo-catalytic set of processes occurs to produce hydrocarbons and hydrogen. Initially clay reacts with kerogen producing hydrocarbons, hydrogen and amorphous carbon, the alteration of clays releasing hydronium. During the late catagenic phase thermo-catalysis of hydrocarbons by amorphous carbon create shorter chained hydrocarbons and hydrogen whilst amorphous carbon degrades to carbon black. During expulsion of hydrocarbons and hydrogen the permeability of the source rock becomes more heterogeneous, and isolating some reactants creating pyrobitumens and other carbonaceous materials. At higher temperatures during metagenesis isolated pyrobitumens and other carbonaceous materials in shales are turned to graphite releasing gaseous hydrocarbons and eventually diatomic hydrogen in a second phase by thermo-catalytic reaction with carbon black. This matches the temperatures and results at which laboratory experiments and petrochemical processes used to generate hydrogen are observed. The current conclusion of the hydrocarbon generation story at the methane preservation limit should be recognized as the start of hydrogen generation and graphitization as the end of the process. Instead of basin exploration focused solely on hydrocarbons and stopping due to concerns of over maturity of source and reservoir, exploration may continue deeper in search of organic hydrogen. This should be noted as a primary hydrogen generation mechanism globally and provide a suitable model to aid hydrogen exploration and lead the energy transition into a hydrogen economy.
Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) disproportionately affect marginalised groups within impoverished communities, conferring devastating physical, financial and psychosocial effects. Skin-NTDs (SNTDs) are uniquely stigmatising due to their visible nature, rendering affected individuals vulnerable to psychosocial risk and the associated decline in social participation, quality of life and mental health. In response to knowledge gaps identified by current global efforts for integrated control of SNTDs this review gathers existing evidence on the psychosocial effects of SNTDs, with consideration given to the influence of gender.
Neurodynamic approach employs neural mobilization and mechanical nerve interface techniques. While published studies investigated the efficacy of neural mobilization, it is currently unknown whether manual treatment of the nerve mechanical interface is effective in the treatment of people with entrapment neuropathies. Assess the effectiveness of mechanical interface treatment, including joint and soft tissue techniques, on pain and function in people with peripheral entrapment neuropathies. Intervention systematic review with metanalysis. the databases MEDLINE, CINAHL, AMED, APA PsycINFO, SPORTDiscus, PubMed and ScienceDirect were searched from their inception to October 2022. Randomized controlled trials investigating mechanical interface treatment in isolation in patients with peripheral entrapment neuropathies were included. Two independent reviewers performed study selection, data extraction and risk of bias assessment using the Cochrane RoB 2.0 tool. Certainty of evidence for each outcome was judged using the GRADE framework. 11 studies were included in the review, all investigating carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). Due to high heterogeneity of interventions and comparators, only five studies were pooled in a random-effects meta-analysis. There was evidence of mechanical interface techniques being more effective in reducing pain than sham (MD -2.47 [-3.94;-0.99]) and similarly effective as neural mobilization (MD -0.22 [-0.76; 0.33]) in CTS, albeit with low to very low certainty in the results. mechanical interface techniques are effective for improving pain and function in people with CTS. However, the marked heterogeneity of included interventions and comparators prevents clinical recommendation of specific treatments.
New primary source material documents the expansion of Montgomery Ward’s mail order through their export department to Latin American consumers from the end of the Spanish American War in 1898 to ca.1930, and the formative period of export advertising and mail order marketing for the first time. Chicago was the center of mail order and ready-made clothing; women’s ready-made suits provide a case study of merchandise. A Chicago clothier requested a U.S. State Department inquiry to study the viability of introducing American ready-made clothing in Latin America in 1899. This Government study provides significant details about ready-made clothing in Latin America previously unknown to scholars. U.S. mail order required international parcel post for growth, and a Ward employee championed its passage in 1919. New primary sources have been contextualized within the frameworks of business, advertising, postal, and dress history and political economy. Advances in export advertising led to growth, which has been traced using statistics from trade journals and an internal document about the history of the export department. The essay ends by examining the names and addresses of Latin American consumers from extant Montgomery Ward return envelopes that have been digitally mapped and interpreted. Latin American consumption theory will be examined apropos of consumers and the meaning of mail order goods.
Nicholas Hawksmoor’s Christ Church, Spitalfields (1714–29), and St Mary Woolnoth (1716–27) in London, England, are outstanding examples of the late English Baroque. They combine classical elements with forms and ornamentation taken from a range of architectural styles, most particularly the Gothic of medieval English churches. While Hawksmoor was clearly adept with the Gothic ‘manner’, it remains uncertain to what extent he was familiar with the underlying design formulas used by the medieval masons. In this study, a new survey using laser-assisted measurement was undertaken at both churches. Measurements were taken of the most significant dimensions in the church interiors, and the proportional ratios between the dimensions were calculated. These structural ratios were then compared with the rational and irrational ratios commonly found in medieval design, including the ratios 1:√2 and 1:√3. A total of 34 close matches were found across the two churches. These matches fall within an acceptable range of discrepancy, which was estimated following a calculation of the level of construction tolerance found in both churches. The large number of correlations found in this study, and the accuracy of the matches, provides significant evidence that Hawksmoor was making conscious and deliberate use in these churches of the design formulas that he is likely to have considered Gothic in origin. The sequence of proportional ratios found in each church makes it possible to reconstruct the steps by which Hawksmoor may have developed his designs for the two churches.
Not available.
Objective The primary objective of this cross-sectional study was to compare standard laboratory performance metrics of transgender athletes to cisgender athletes. Methods 19 cisgender men (CM) (mean±SD, age: 37±9 years), 12 transgender men (TM) (age: 34±7 years), 23 transgender women (TW) (age: 34±10 years) and 21 cisgender women (CW) (age: 30±9 years) underwent a series of standard laboratory performance tests, including body composition, lung function, cardiopulmonary exercise testing, strength and lower body power. Haemoglobin concentration in capillary blood and testosterone and oestradiol in serum were also measured. Results In this cohort of athletes, TW had similar testosterone concentration (TW 0.7±0.5 nmol/L, CW 0.9±0.4 nmol/), higher oestrogen (TW 742.4±801.9 pmol/L, CW 336.0±266.3 pmol/L, p=0.045), higher absolute handgrip strength (TW 40.7±6.8 kg, CW 34.2±3.7 kg, p=0.01), lower forced expiratory volume in 1 s:forced vital capacity ratio (TW 0.83±0.07, CW 0.88±0.04, p=0.04), lower relative jump height (TW 0.7±0.2 cm/kg; CW 1.0±0.2 cm/kg, p&lt;0.001) and lower relative V̇O 2 max (TW 45.1±13.3 mL/kg/min/, CW 54.1±6.0 mL/kg/min, p&lt;0.001) compared with CW athletes. TM had similar testosterone concentration (TM 20.5±5.8 nmol/L, CM 24.8±12.3 nmol/L), lower absolute hand grip strength (TM 38.8±7.5 kg, CM 45.7±6.9 kg, p = 0.03) and lower absolute V̇O 2 max (TM 3635±644 mL/min, CM 4467±641 mL/min p = 0.002) than CM. Conclusion While longitudinal transitioning studies of transgender athletes are urgently needed, these results should caution against precautionary bans and sport eligibility exclusions that are not based on sport-specific (or sport-relevant) research.
Objective To explore the technology-based tools available for supporting the identification of victims of domestic abuse and modern slavery in remote services and consider the benefits and challenges posed by the existing tools. Methods We searched six academic databases. Studies were considered for inclusion if they were published in English between 2000 and 2023. The QuADS quality appraisal tool was used to assess the methodological quality of included studies. A narrative synthesis was conducted using the convergent integrated approach. Results Twenty-four studies were included, of which two were professional guidelines; each reported on a distinct technology-based tool for remote services. All tools related to domestic abuse and 21 focused on screening for intimate partner violence among young and mid-life women (18–65) in high-income countries. The review did not identify tools that support the identification of victims of modern slavery. We identified eight common themes of tool strengths, highlighting that the remote approach to screening was practical, acceptable to victims, and, in some circumstances, elicited better outcomes than face-to-face approaches. Five themes pointed to tool challenges, such as concerns around privacy and safety, and the inability of computerised tools to provide empathy and emotional support. Conclusions Available technology-based tools may support the identification of victims of domestic abuse by health and social care practitioners in remote services. However, it is important to be mindful of the limitations of such tools and the effects individuals’ screening preferences can have on outcomes. Future research should focus on developing tools to support the identification of victims of modern slavery, as well as empirically validating tools for screening during remote consultations.
OBJECTIVE Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is reported to be more common in people living with HIV (PLWH). Clinical guidelines recommend screening for diabetes in PLWH, but there is no agreed method due to studies reporting HbA1c is falsely low in PLWH. These studies were performed in the early HIV era when participants were taking older preparations of antiretroviral therapy that are rarely used today. We aimed to investigate whether HIV serostatus influences HbA1c. RESEARCH DESIGNS AND METHODS We conducted a prospective cohort study of PLWH and age- and sex-matched HIV-negative participants who were purposely recruited from clinics in Brighton, U.K. Each participant wore a Dexcom G6 continuous glucose monitor (CGM) for up to 10 days, had glucose measured during an oral glucose tolerance test, and fructosamine and paired HbA1c were measured. We performed regression analysis to assess the influence of HIV on HbA1c and used a separate model for CGM glucose, venous glucose, and fructosamine. In addition, we included predictor variables used in previous studies that explored HbA1c discrepancy. RESULTS We recruited 60 PLWH (90% men, 50% with T2D, mean ± SD age 57 ± 10.7 years, 100% undetectable viral load) and 48 people without HIV (92% men, 30% with T2D, mean age 57.7 ± 8.9 years). We found that HIV serostatus did not have a significant influence on HbA1c within the regression models. CONCLUSIONS We performed a comprehensive assessment of glycemia to assess whether HIV serostatus influences HbA1c. We did not find any strong evidence that HIV serostatus influenced HbA1c. The results of our study support incorporating HbA1c into routine clinical blood work in PLWH.
Objective We sought to examine associations between height gain across childhood and adolescence with hip shape in individuals aged 60–64 years from the Medical Research Council National Survey of Health and Development, a nationally representative British birth cohort. Methods Height was measured at ages 2, 4, 6, 7, 11 and 15 years, and self-reported at age 20 years. 10 modes of variation in hip shape (HM1–10), described by statistical shape models, were previously ascertained from DXA images taken at ages 60–64 years. Associations between (1) height at each age; (2) Super-Imposition by Translation And Rotation (SITAR) growth curve variables of height size, tempo and velocity; and (3) height gain during specific periods of childhood and adolescence, and HM1–10 were tested. Results Faster growth velocity was associated with a wider, flatter femoral head and neck, as described by positive scores for HM6 (regression coefficient 0.014; 95% CI 0.08 to 0.019; p&lt;0.001) and HM7 (regression coefficient 0.07; 95% CI 0.002 to 0.013; p=0.009), and negative scores for HM10 (regression coefficient −0.006; 95% CI −0.011 to 0.00, p=0.04) and HM2 (males only, regression coefficient −0.017; 95% CI −0.026 to −0.09; p&lt;0.001). Similar associations were observed with greater height size and later height tempo. Examination of height gains during specific periods of childhood and adolescence identified those during the adolescence period as being most consistently associated. Conclusion Our analyses suggest that individual growth patterns, particularly in the adolescent period, are associated with modest variations in hip shape at 60–64 years, which are consistent with features seen in osteoarthritis.
Objective: Retinal ischaemic events (RIE), consisting of central retinal artery occlusions (CRAO), branch retinal artery occlusion (BRAO), and amaurosis fugax (Amfug), are commonly observed in older adults, often manifesting as sudden painless monocular visual loss. CRAO and BRAO are regarded as minor strokes, while Amfug is likened to a cerebral TIA. We present an RIE patient cohort, their clinical characteristics, and outcomes as a first step in evaluating our patient outcomes, service provision, and potentially highlighting areas for improvement. Design and method: This study is a retrospective consecutive case series from a major stroke centre in the UK: Royal Sussex County Hospital, Brighton. The electronic patient records of the stroke department were reviewed to identify all patients between August 2018 and December 2021 who had been managed following a diagnosis of RIE. Descriptive and inferential statistics were conducted on detailed clinical and demographic data of study participants, exploring their frequency distributions and testing associations between the three groups of RIE. Results: One hundred and eleven (111) study participants with RIE were identified from the stroke register, with 56.8% (n=63) diagnosed with amaurosis fugax, 25.2% (n=28) with BRAO, and 18.0% (n=20) with CRAO. Mean age was 70.6 ± 1.2 years (SEM) and 35.1% (n=39) were female. Characteristics such as blood pressure, total cholesterol, glucose and inflammatory markers (ESR and CRP) were noted to be higher in CRAO and BRAO compared to Amfug, though not statistically significant (p&gt;0.05). Similarly, 97%(n=195) carotid doppler scans showed greater or equal stenosis ipsilateral to the RIE, with calculated Fazeka scores showing 1.2 ± 0.1 (SEM) (n=49). Outcomes post RIE demonstrated 6.8% mortality within one year of RIE diagnosis and 14.3% of this attributable to ischaemic stroke. Conclusions: Our cohort demonstrates that RIE is largely a large vessel disease as depicted in the risk factors identified and scores from carotid doppler and Fazeka. With RIE showing similar risk factors as that for strokes, it is essential that patients presenting with RIE should have their risk factors strictly addressed to reduce complications, morbidity and mortality associated with RIE as in all large vessel diseases.
Objectives The objective was to map the experiences and needs of patients presenting with symptoms of suspected cancer in the primary care interval (from when they first present to primary care to their first appointment or referral to a secondary or tertiary level healthcare facility). Design This was a scoping review. Inclusion criteria Studies or reports written in English which included primary data on the primary care interval experiences and/or needs of adult patients presenting with new symptoms of suspected cancer were eligible. Studies which only included patients with secondary or recurring cancer, conference abstracts and reviews were excluded. No date limits were applied. Methods The Joanna Briggs Institute method for Scoping Reviews guided screening, report selection and data extraction. At least two independent reviewers contributed to each stage. Medline, CINAHL, PsychInfo, Embase and Web of Science were searched and several grey literature resources. Relevant quantitative findings were qualitised and integrated with qualitative findings. A thematic analysis was carried out. Results Of the 4855 records identified in the database search, 18 were included in the review, along with 13 identified from other sources. The 31 included studies were published between 2002 and 2023 and most (n=17) were conducted in the UK. Twenty subthemes across four themes (patient experience, interpersonal, healthcare professional (HCP) skills, organisational) were identified. No studies included patient-reported outcome measures. Patients wanted (1) to feel heard and understood by HCPs, (2) a plan to establish what was causing their symptoms, and (3) information about the next stages of the diagnostic process. Conclusions Scoping review findings can contribute to service planning as the cancer diagnostic pathway for symptomatic presentation of cancer evolves. The effectiveness of this pathway should be evaluated not only in terms of clinical outcomes, but also patient-reported outcomes and experience, along with the perspectives of primary care HCPs.
Objectives The post-medieval period in Europe saw a dramatic increase in metabolic bone disease related to vitamin D deficiency (VDD). Recent paleopathological work has utilized interglobular dentin (IGD) as a proxy for poor vitamin D status during development, while enamel peptide analysis allows the identification of chromosomal sex in non-adult remains. Here we explore the relationship between sex, the presence of IGD, and macroscopic markers of VDD in an industrial era assemblage from Northeast England. Materials and methods 25 individuals (9 females, 9 males, 9 unknown sex) from the cemetery site at Coach Lane, North Shields (1711–1857) were selected for paleopathological analysis, histological assessment of IGD, and enamel peptide determination of chromosomal sex. Results Ground tooth sections from 21 individuals were of suitable quality for detection of IGD, and enamel peptide analysis confirmed the chromosomal sex of ten individuals. Sixteen individuals (76.1%) exhibited ≥1 episode of IGD. Nine of these (42.8%) exhibited &gt;1 episode and four (19%) exhibited ≥4 episodes in regular intervals. Male sex was significantly associated with the presence of IGD ( p = 0.0351; 100% males vs. 54.5% females). Females were more likely to exhibit macroscopic evidence of VDD (45.5% females vs 30% males) but this was not statistically significant. Discussion and conclusions Periods of poor mineral metabolism during childhood appear much more prevalent at Coach Lane than macroscopic evidence suggests. Evidence of seasonal IGD episodes indicates that northern latitude played a major role in poor VD status in the Northeast of England. The significant association of IGD with male sex may be due to sex-related differences in dentinal mineralization or a higher risk of poor VD status in males aged &lt;5 years. More work is needed to establish an evidence-based threshold for pathological levels of IGD before the presence of this feature can confidently be used as a biomarker for poor VD status.
Objectives To test whether inflammatory processes link the expression of childhood neurodivergent traits to chronic disabling fatigue in adolescence. Design Longitudinal case–control study. Setting We analysed data from The Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC). Participants 8115 and 8036 children of the ALSPAC cohort at ages 7 and 9 years, respectively, 4563 of whom also completed self-report measures at age 18 years. Primary and secondary outcome measures We assessed if children scoring above screening threshold for autism/attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) at ages 7 and 9 years had increased risk of chronic disabling fatigue at age 18 years, computing ORs and CIs for effects using binary logistic regression. Mediation analyses were conducted to test if an inflammatory marker (interleukin 6 (IL-6)) at age 9 years linked neurodivergent traits to chronic disabling fatigue at age 18 years. Results Children with neurodivergent traits at ages 7 and 9 years were two times as likely to experience chronic disabling fatigue at age 18 years (likely ADHD OR=2.18 (95% CI=1.33 to 3.56); p=0.002; likely autism OR=1.78 (95% CI=1.17 to 2.72); p=0.004). Levels of IL-6 at age 9 were associated with chronic disabling fatigue at age 18 (OR=1.54 (95% CI=1.13 to 2.11); p=0.006). Inflammation at age 9 years mediated effects of neurodivergent traits on chronic disabling fatigue (indirect effect via IL-6: ADHD b=1.08 (95% CI=1.01 to 1.15); autism b=1.06; (95% CI=1.03 to 1.10)). All effects remained significant when controlling for the presence of depressive symptoms. Conclusions Our results indicate higher risk of chronic disabling fatigue for children with neurodivergent traits, likely linked to higher levels of inflammation. The implementation of transdiagnostic screening criteria to inform support strategies to counteract risk early in life is recommended.
Objectives: To explore the longitudinal recovery of patients admitted to critical care following COVID-19 over the year following hospital discharge. To understand the important aspects of the patients’ recovery process and key elements of their caregivers’ experiences during this time. Design: A longitudinal qualitative study using semi-structured interviews. Setting: Two acute hospitals in South East England and follow-up in the community. Participants: Six COVID-19 critical care survivors from the first wave of the pandemic (March–May 2020) and five relatives were interviewed 3 months after hospital discharge. The same six survivors and one relative were interviewed again at 1 year. Interviews were transcribed verbatim, anonymised and a reflexive thematic analysis was conducted. Results: Three themes were developed: (1) ‘The cycle of guilt, fear and stigma’; (2) ‘Facing the uncertainties of recovery’ and (3) ‘Coping with lingering symptoms – the new norm’. The first theme highlights survivors’ reluctance to share their experiences associated with contracting the disease. The second theme, explores challenges faced by the survivors and their relatives in navigating the recovery process, given the unknown nature of the illness. The final theme illustrates the mechanisms survivors develop to come to terms with the remnants of their illness and critical care stay. Conclusions: The longitudinal nature of the study highlighted the persisting symptoms of long COVID-19, their impact on survivors and coping methods amidst the ongoing pandemic. Further research into the experiences of those affected in the first and subsequent waves of the COVID-19 pandemic, is desirable to help guide the formulation of the optimally supported recovery pathways.
Objectives: We sought to understand the social construction of aging in a clinic-based population, with and without HIV, to address gaps in care for older individuals living with HIV in Zambia. Methods: Our exploratory qualitative study included 36 in-depth interviews with clinic clients and four focus group discussions with 36 professional and lay healthcare workers providing services to the clients. We identified themes based on social construction theory. Results: At the individual level, aging was multidimensional, perceived both as an achievement in the HIV era and as a period of cognitive, physical, and economic decline. In social interactions, older individuals were often stereotyped and treated as helpless, poor, and “witches.” Those living with HIV faced the additional stigma of being labeled as promiscuous. Some of the participants living without HIV refused to take daily medication for non-communicable diseases to avoid being mistaken for taking antiretroviral therapy for HIV. Older individuals wanted quality healthcare and family support to address the intersectional stigma of aging, poverty, and chronic illness. Conclusion: Multifaceted interventions are required to combat age-related prejudice, intersectional stigma, and discriminatory practices, particularly for people living with HIV.
ObjectivesTo identify patterns in inflammatory marker and vital sign responses in adult with suspected bloodstream infection (BSI) and define expected trends in normal recovery.MethodsWe included patients ≥16 y from Oxford University Hospitals with a blood culture taken between 01-January-2016 to 28-June-2021. We used linear and latent class mixed models to estimate trajectories in C-reactive protein (CRP), white blood count, heart rate, respiratory rate and temperature and identify CRP response subgroups. Centile charts for expected CRP responses were constructed via the lambda-mu-sigma method.ResultsIn 88,348 suspected BSI episodes; 6,908(7.8%) were culture-positive with a probable pathogen, 4,309(4.9%) contained potential contaminants, and 77,131(87.3%) were culture-negative. CRP levels generally peaked 1–2 days after blood culture collection, with varying responses for different pathogens and infection sources (p<0.0001).We identified five CRP trajectory subgroups: peak on day-1 (36,091;46.3%) or 2 (4,529;5.8%), slow recovery (10,666;13.7%), peak on day-6 (743;1.0%), and low response (25,928;33.3%). Centile reference charts tracking normal responses were constructed from those peaking on day-1/2.ConclusionsCRP and other infection response markers rise and recover differently depending on clinical syndrome and pathogen involved. However, centile reference charts, that account for these differences, can be used to track if patients are recovering line as expected and to help personalise infection.
Over time, there have been various important contributions that have advanced the application of different conceptual and theoretical approaches to analysing policy processes across the field of sport. On the other hand, there remains a significant gap in relation to appraising different approaches that may be used in analysis of the particular content of sport policies. This article addresses this gap through considering four distinctive disciplinary and conceptual approaches to analysing sport policy content: (i) specific sport-orientated analytic frameworks, such as the Sport Policy Factors Leading to International Sport Success (SPLISS) and the Physical Activity Environment Policy Index (PA-EPI); (ii) discourse analysis approaches; (iii) political science frameworks for analysing policy design; and (iv) theories from political philosophy. Fundamental characteristics of each approach will be considered through the article, derived from a critical appraisal of their differing utilisations in sport policy research to date and the potential contributions that each may make to future analyses of sport policy content. As a result, the article offers concluding recommendations for sport policy research which encompass expanding usage of different approaches where suited to analysis of specific types of sport policies and combining approaches where their synergies would enable more substantive analysis to be undertaken.
Oxidative stress maybe involved in the patho-etiology of menstrual-associated complications. Curcuminoids, are polyphenolic natural compounds that have potentially important functional activities. This triple-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial was performed to investigate the effects of a curcuminoids on oxidative stress and antioxidant capacity in girls with premenstrual syndrome (PMS) and dysmenorrhea. Eighty young girls with both PMS and dysmenorrhea were randomly given either curcuminoids (500 mg+5 mg piperine) or a placebo daily, for a period from 7 days pre- until 3 days post- initiation of menstrual bleeding for 3 successive menstrual cycles. The total antioxidant capacity and free radical scavenging activity of serum and urine were quantified via ferric reducing/antioxidant power (FRAP) and 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) methods, respectively. There were no significant differences between the placebo and curcumin groups, with respect to the age, dietary intake and biochemical/anthropometric indices (p>0.05). The curcumin treatment significantly increased the free-radical scavenging activity of serum compared to the treatment with placebo (p=0.031). Although, no significant changes were found in serum and urinary levels of FRAP, DPPH and MDA between the groups (p>0.05). Curcumin treatment did increase free-radical scavenging activity and antioxidant potential in girls with PMS and dysmenorrhea. Investigations with higher doses and duration of curcumin are required to verify our findings.
Patient-reported outcomes (PROs) facilitate communication between patients and providers, enhancing patient-centered care. We report PROs for virologically suppressed people living with HIV-1 who switched to dolutegravir/lamivudine (DTG/3TC) or continued their 3- or 4-drug current antiretroviral regimen (CAR) in the phase 3 SALSA study. Secondary endpoints included change from baseline in HIV Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (status version; HIVTSQs) and HIV Symptom Distress Module (HIV-SDM) at Weeks 4, 24, and 48. A post hoc analysis assessed change in HIVTSQs and HIV-SDM by age (≥ 50 and < 50 years). Higher HIVTSQs scores represent greater treatment satisfaction (range, 0-60); lower HIV-SDM scores indicate less symptom bother (range, 0-80). Participants in the DTG/3TC (n = 246) and CAR (n = 247) groups reported comparable baseline HIVTSQs total scores (mean [SD], 55.2 [6.5] and 55.8 [5.5], respectively). Beginning at Week 4, mean HIVTSQs scores in the DTG/3TC group further increased vs. CAR and were sustained through Week 48. Baseline mean (SD) HIV-SDM symptom bother scores were comparable between the DTG/3TC (9.0 [9.9]) and CAR (7.9 [9.3]) groups. Small improvements in HIV-SDM scores favoring DTG/3TC were observed at Weeks 4 and 24 and sustained through Week 48 (though not significant between groups). Participants aged ≥ 50 and < 50 years who switched to DTG/3TC reported higher satisfaction and less symptom distress vs. CAR; these results were generally comparable between age groups. Participants who switched to DTG/3TC reported rapid and sustained improvements in treatment satisfaction compared with those who continued CAR, reinforcing the benefits of DTG/3TC beyond virologic suppression (NCT04021290; registration date, 7/11/2019).
Patients with a diagnosis of Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD) often experience difficulties in psychosocial functioning, which reduces the ability of individuals to engage socially. This review seeks to determine whether atypical antipsychotics (AAPs) are more effective than placebo at alleviating these difficulties in adults with a diagnosis of BPD. We identified six Randomized Control Trials, conducted between 1994 and 2024, with 1012 patients that were treated with either: Olanzapine, Quetiapine, Ziprasidone or Aripiprazole. Using a meta-analysis, we found evidence that atypical antipsychotics induce a small improvement treating psychosocial functioning in patients with a diagnosis of border line personality. In particular, AAPs improved General Assessment of Functioning (GAF) more than placebo. Combining GAFs P-values from several studies indicated this effect was significant. AAPs were also superior to placebo at improving quality of interpersonal relationships, occupational functioning and family life. There was a positive improvement tendency in social life and leisure activities. AAPs also induced known secondary effects like weight gain and sedation as previously described. AAPs were beneficial for improving general functioning and its subcomponents. However, the magnitude of the benefit above that of placebo was small and its clinical meaningfulness is thus debatable. More randomised-controlled trials are required.
People living with HIV (PLWH) despite having an appreciable depletion of CD4
People living with HIV (PLWH) experience a disproportionate burden of mental health problems compared to people living without HIV. This systematic review aims to depict the spectrum of resilience resources that may promote the mental health of PLWH at the individual, interpersonal, organisational, community and policy levels. A systematic literature search was conducted in PsycINFO, Scopus, Medline and advanced Google Scholar. The quality of included studies was assessed using the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool (MMAT). Of the 591 studies identified, fourteen were included representing a total of 5,142 PLWH from China, Ghana, Nepal, Spain, Tanzania and the USA. Resilience resources were identified at the individual level (self-efficacy, self-esteem, acceptance, hope, optimism, religiosity/spirituality, belief in fate, mindfulness, strength and self-responsibility); interpersonal level (social support and parental monitoring); and community level (attending HIV clinic support groups and access to healthcare). All quantitative studies were cross-sectional, limiting inferences about causation or directionality. Future research should focus on resilience resources at the organisational and policy levels and incorporate longitudinal designs.
Podiatry is an allied health profession focusing on the assessment, diagnosis, treatment and prevention of foot, ankle and lower limb conditions. In the United Kingdom context, the recent National Health Service's (NHS) Long Term Workforce Plan has highlighted an ongoing shortfall in the podiatry workforce and the need for increased recruitment to podiatry training [1]. Current available routes to podiatry education in the UK include BSc (Hons) Podiatry, BSc Podiatry Apprenticeship and MSc Podiatry (Pre-Registration). The curriculum typically covers theoretical knowledge and practical skills relevant to lower limb conditions as per the Health and Care Professions Council's Standards of Proficiency for Chiropodists and Podiatrists [2] and the Royal College of Podiatry's (RCPod) Core Curriculum. In addition, learners are normally required to complete at least 1000 placement hours as part of their degree study. Practice placements are a crucial component of podiatry education. During placements, learners are able to apply their theoretical knowledge to real-world scenarios with exposure to a range of patient cases. Traditionally, these placements have been concentrated in podiatry clinics and hospitals in the NHS. Due to the ongoing podiatry workforce shortage in the UK [3], there has been an impact on "traditional" clinical placements where fewer placements have been available for podiatry learners. This issue poses a challenge to the sustainability of podiatry education and training pipeline. "Diverse placements" is a broad term that can be used to encompass a range of practice learning opportunities in specialized or non-podiatry settings. These types of placements are widely incorporated within other allied health professions, with literature highlighting key benefits within occupational therapy [4-6] and physiotherapy [7-9]. These benefits include the strengthening of professional identity, leadership, communication skills, professional reasoning, evidence-based practice, and autonomous working. However, there is a lack of evidence on this in the podiatry profession. This innovative approach in placement education is also recognized by the RCPod in its publication on the practice-based learning framework for pre-registration podiatry learners [10]. With Advanced Clinical Practitioner and First Contact Practitioner roles centered around the four pillars of practice [11, 12], it is essential to ensure that graduates have opportunities for placement experiences that enable them to develop their research, leadership and education aspects of practice in addition to clinical knowledge and skills. The diverse placement experiences are thus critical to better prepare learners for the diverse roles that are increasingly available to them [10]. It is worth noting that the long-term effects of diverse placements are yet to be understood, particularly for the podiatry profession, due to its recent development. Remote placements have proven to be an effective solution to the challenges in healthcare education, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic [13]. Examples of remote placements in podiatry include telehealth consultations, triaging activities, simulated case studies and service improvement project work. These placements have shown to improve learners' clinical competence and communication skills, enable more person-centered approach and foster innovative mindsets [14, 15]. Learners that have undertaken remote placements often take part in the placements from their home through digital platforms appropriate for their placements. This allows for more flexibility (e.g., for those with caring responsibility), reduces placement-related costs (e.g., travel and accommodation) and broadens access to placements without geographic constraints. With evidence suggesting that financial challenges are the top factor affecting learners' ability to continue with their healthcare training and education [16], remote placements can help to reduce this burden. Hands-on experiences remain invaluable for podiatrist-in-training, but remote placements can offer a complementary option to traditional in-person clinical placements to enhance the overall placement experiences by providing its own unique perspectives and benefits. At the University of Brighton, diverse placements can account for up to 28% of the total placement hours for podiatry learners. This equates to approximately 1–2 blocks of 4 full time weeks of placements. As part of the Brighton model, learners can indicate (1) whether they wish to do diverse placements as part of their study, and (2) preferences for the type(s) of diverse placements they wish to undertake, allowing for optionality in their podiatry degree education. It is important to note that diverse placements can still be clinical placements, but they typically take place in more diverse settings as demonstrated in Table 1. Sports podiatry Podiatric surgery Private practices Research Education Leadership Falls prevention services Homeless services Emergency services Primary care Schools The introduction of diverse placements provides exciting opportunities for learners to explore adjacent aspects of podiatry as a profession beyond a typical podiatry clinical setting. As learners can indicate their preferences for diverse placement options, they are able to tailor their diverse placement experiences to suit their interests and potential future career progression. For example, learners who are interested in becoming a podiatric surgeon can choose a podiatric surgery placement as their preferred option of diverse placements. From the placement providers' perspectives, these placements also help to reduce the pressure on the traditional clinical placements due to staff shortages [3] and offer opportunities for traditional placement providers to offer alternative types of placements which may be of benefit to their services. For example, a traditional placement provider may choose to also offer a leadership placement for learners to work on an audit or service evaluation project. The diverse placements can also be delivered for up to 100% remotely. For example, a research placement may be delivered 80% remotely for activities related to research project preparation and 20% in-person for data collection. This is a representation of hybrid working patterns, which provides benefits to workers' well-being and may help to minimize burnout [17]. An agreed remote activity content is normally required between the placement provider, the learner(s) and the university's podiatry placement team prior to the start of a placement. For role-emerging placements which take place in non-podiatry settings, long-arm supervision [18] is provided by the podiatry placement team. The long-arm supervisor is a named person who provides additional support (e.g., weekly meetings) but is not with students on a day-to-day basis during the placement. This is to ensure inputs from podiatry perspectives, including supporting learners with integration of theory and practice, ensuring adherence to professional standards and codes of conduct and providing professional support and guidance specific to podiatry. Thus, the incorporation of diverse placements into the placement model offers a more balanced and sustainable approach to practice-based podiatry education [19]. In the changing world of podiatry education, diverse placements can provide innovative solutions to several pressing challenges. One of the key benefits is to reduce the pressure of traditional clinical placement demands on the overextended healthcare providers, while allowing for new avenues of specialized learning that can be incorporated into learners' future career progression plans. For example, in podiatric surgery, leadership, research, education and role-emerging areas. An alternative mode of placement delivery (e.g., remote and hybrid) can also provide several benefits including improving work–life balance, reducing placement-related costs and accessibility of placements beyond geographical constraints. The University of Brighton model serves as an example of how diverse placements can be integrated into BSc (Hons) Podiatry, BSc Podiatry Apprenticeship and MSc Podiatry (Pre-Registration) courses. The inclusion of diverse placements in podiatry training and education is vital to prepare a new generation of podiatrists who are more versatile and equipped to handle complex challenges of the future healthcare environment. There is also an opportunity for future research due to the current lack in empirical evidence on podiatry placements and recent development of innovative placement approaches (e.g., non-clinical placements and online placements) in response to the changing landscape of healthcare education. Thanaporn Tunprasert and Channine Clarke prepared, reviewed, edited and approved the manuscript. Not applicable. None of the authors have any conflicts or competing interests to declare. Not applicable. Not applicable. Data sharing is not applicable to this article as no new data were created or analyzed in this study.
Podoconiosis is a neglected debilitating yet preventable disease. Despite its public health significance, podoconiosis is often misdiagnosed and confused with lymphatic filariasis. No appropriate diagnostic tests exist, contributing to underestimation and the absence of control interventions.
Predicated on the telephone, the history of videotelephony has continually adopted a two-way model of communication between 'newsreader' participants, confined to boxes on a screen. This article identifies philosophical approaches and practical solutions to overcome this 'horseless-carriage' syndrome using a phenomenological methodology to reframe the concept of videotelephony as a third space encounter through the author's telematic art practice. By reflecting on audience participation in the Installations Telematic Dreaming (1992) and Telematic Vision (1993) participants interact through a third-person self-image and transcend their physical vulnerabilities and self-conscious inhibitions to engage and identify through coexistence and empathy. These observations draw on analogies between Martin Heidegger's 'hammer' and the television screen, and Maurice Merleau-Ponty's 'extension of bodily synthesis' and the telepresent image of self. By drawing on these phenomenological approaches, the author's AHRC research project Telepresence Stage (2022) responded to the mass entrapment of two-way videoconference apps during the COVID-19 lockdown, and the inevitable Zoom fatigue, to provide alternative fit-for-purpose telepresence solutions for the performing arts sector. The project exposes the flaws and misconceptions of conventional videotelephony by employing open-source resources and practical green-screen techniques to embody a shared third space between remote performers, arriving at alternative telepresence solutions for future coexistence.
Preliminary research findings suggest that the successful integration of advanced autonomous technologies in cargo ships could provide safer shipping and provide economical benefits. However, the fact that ships can sail with the assistance of autonomous technologies is not sufficient evidence alone to comprehend the promises of autonomous systems for maritime transport operations. Simultaneously, the entire global maritime transport system must also adapt to the advanced autonomous technologies and act interoperable with ships. In this context, this study aims to examine the areas of interoperability requirements with ports for the effective and integrated operation of autonomous cargo ships. In accordance with the purpose of the study, the operational context in which ships and ports interact is determined, and their interoperability in an autonomous maritime transport scenario is analysed. The present study contains the application of a survey questionnaire reflecting the views of experts dealing with ship and port operations. The data collected by the survey questionnaire are analysed by applying multiple regression analysis methods, utilising the IBM SPSS program. This study is in a pioneer position to define the interoperability characteristics to improve port operations to work in harmony with autonomous ships. The findings of this research are anticipated to contribute significantly to shaping the future of smart and autonomous freight transport and logistics.
Previous research has explored the physical activity habits of people with dementia and their family carers separately, with little consideration of how physical habits are associated within dyads. In this observational study, we sought to explore the relationship between people with dementia and their carers' physical activity, at a group level and at a dyadic level. Twenty-six participant dyads (persons with dementia and their carer spouses) were asked to wear an accelerometer for 30 days continuously. Comparisons were made at a group level and a dyadic level. People with dementia did not participate in significantly more moderate to vigorous physical activity (M = 15.44 min/day; SD = 14.40) compared with carers (M = 17.95 min/day; SD = 17.01). Within dyads, there were moderately strong associations between daily moderate to vigorous physical activity (r = .48-.54), but not with overall activity levels (r = .24). Despite physical activity habits remaining relatively low within people with dementia and carers, respectively, moderate to vigorous physical activity levels appear to be correlated within dyads. Understanding mutual influence on physical activity levels within dyads is an important pathway to promote an active lifestyle.
Prior studies have explored the links between congenital anomalies and assisted reproduction techniques, among other factors. However, it remains unclear whether a particular technique harbors an inherent risk of major congenital anomalies, either cumulatively or in an organ-specific manner. A meta-analysis was conducted using relevant studies from inception to February 2023 using six databases and two appropriate registers. Sources of heterogeneity were explored using sub-group analysis, using study weight, risk of bias and geographical location of original studies. Neonates conceived through assisted reproduction appear to have a higher risk of major congenital anomalies compared to naturally conceived neonates, OR 0.67 [95% CI 0.59, 0.76], I
Progressive liver disease and dysfunction cause toxic metabolites including ammonia and unconjugated bilirubin to accumulate in plasma. As the population ages alternatives to liver transplantation become increasingly important. One approach for use as a bridge to transplant or recovery is the use of bioartificial liver systems (BALS) containing primary or immortalised hepatocytes as ex-vivo replacements or supports for endogenous liver function. However, exposure to the hepatotoxic metabolites present in plasma causes the rapid failure of these cells to carry out their primary metabolic functions despite remaining viable. Hypothesising that this loss of core hepatocyte phenotypes was caused by cell senescence we exposed HepG2 cell populations, grown in both standard two-dimensional tissue culture systems and in three dimensional cultures on novel alginate modified HEMA-MBA cryogels, to physiologically reflective concentrations of hepatotoxic metabolites and cytokines. HepG2 cells are forced into senescence by the toxic metabolites in under six hours (as measured by loss of thymidine analogue incorporation or detectable Ki67 staining) which is associated with a ten to twenty-fold reduction in the capacity of the cultures to synthesise albumin or urea. This state of senescence induced by liver toxins (SILT) can be prevented by preincubation with either 2-5 µM resveratrol, its major in vivo metabolite dihydroresveratrol or a series of novel resveralogues with differential capacities to scavenge radicals and activate SIRT1 (including V29 which does not interact with the protein). SILT appears to be a previously unrecognised barrier to the development of BALS which can now be overcome using small molecules that are safe for human use at concentrations readily achievable in vivo.
Psoriasis vulgaris is a significant health problem and up to 30% of the patients are most likely to develop psoriatic arthritis. Secukinumab, an interleukin-17A (IL-17A) inhibitor, is used to treat patients with moderate-to-severe plaques associated with psoriatic arthritis. The aim of this case report was to highlight the efficacy of secukinumab treatment in a patient with both psoriasis vulgaris and psoriatic arthritis focusing the how to balance the benefits and adverse effects. A 36-year-old female came to Dr. Zainoel Abidin Hospital, Banda Aceh, Indonesia with chief complaint of itchy and scaly red plaques almost all over the body. The patient also experienced pain in both knees, both ankle joints and index finger as well as thumb in the right hand in the last year. The patient was diagnosed with psoriasis vulgaris and psoriatic arthritis, then treated with phototherapy and 15 mg of oral methotrexate each week for four weeks. Due to no improvement of the initial treatment, the patient received emollient and secukinumab at a dose of 300 mg/week subcutaneously for five weeks. The lesions began to disappear and the joint pain began to relieve. Secukinumab therapy was continued with a dose of 300 mg/month for six months. However, after six months, the patient complained of acnes appeared on the face. Therefore, the maintenance dose of secukinumab was decreased to 150 mg/month. After the reduced maintenance therapy was given, the patient came back with no complained of acnes. The erythematous plaques on trunk, back, arms and legs have subsided, as well as the joint pain. This case highlights that in a moderate-to-severe psoriasis associated with psoriatic arthritis, secukinumab is highly effective. However, since the potential adverse effects, education and regular follow-up are needed to analyze the success of the treatment and to be able to manage the adverse effects.
Purpose M-wallets have emerged as one of the most important financial innovations of the 21st century, enabling users to carry digital cash by securely storing payment methods on their mobile devices. However, the continued use of m-wallets varies among people for several reasons. This study used the technology continuation theory (TCT), gamification and trust factors to examine the variables affecting consumers' intentions to continue using mobile wallets. Design/methodology/approach The SmartPLS partial least squares software was used to analyze data from 431 m-wallet users in Vietnam using the structural equation modeling technique. Findings The data revealed that the research model can predict users' intentions to continue using mobile wallets. TCT constructs demonstrated strong exploratory power in explaining consumer satisfaction and attitudes towards m-wallets. Furthermore, the study confirmed the direct effect of the perceived effectiveness of gamification on perceived ease of use and attitude, as well as its indirect effect on consumers' continued use intentions of mobile wallets via attitude. In addition, the trust negatively influenced consumers' intentions to continue using m-wallets. Practical implications The findings of this study can help researchers, practitioners and policymakers improve m-wallet design, development and adoption, as well as advance financial technology and define the future of digital payments in terms of consumer attraction, engagement and financial inclusion. Originality/value Based on TCT theory, this study enriches m-wallet research by examining two important factors, gamification and trust, and thus provides insights into how to improve consumers’ intentions to continue using m-wallets in developing countries. This study offers timely insights into theory and practice regarding these factors. It therefore paves the way for researchers and practitioners to learn how easy, enjoyable and secure the end-user experience should be to keep users engaged with m-wallets.
Purpose The construction industry has embraced building information modelling (BIM) as a practical methodology towards digitalisation. However, critics believe BIM has reached a plateau in addressing distinctive construction challenges. As a result, literature has seen an increase in the development and use of BIM-based plugins. Overall, the plugins have been critical in delivering custom-built solutions to longstanding construction challenges. The purpose of this study is to empirically investigate this trend and the potential barriers undermining the wider development of BIM plugins, by that contributing to a stimulating research topic and a growing knowledge gap. Design/methodology/approach Methodologically, this study used a quantitative approach to collect data through a carefully designed questionnaire. This study achieved a sample size of 39 experts who have been involved in developing, experimenting and publishing BIM-based plugins for specific construction activities. Findings The findings led to the identification of the key barriers to using BIM-based plugins and the identification of the key strategies to overcome them across the three situational awareness (SA) phases. Results also suggest that the development and use of plugins are destined to increase, and the research community can now rely on the insights of this paper as a departure point to address the technological plateau in BIM-related research. Originality/value To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this is the first study to empirically identify and assess the barriers undermining the wider development of BIM-based plugins. This study contributes to theory by building on SA, by challenging existing wisdom and fostering new knowledge around strategies to overcome the evaluated barriers.
Purpose The study seeks to understand the possible opportunities that Industry 5.0 might offer for various aspects of inclusive sustainability. The study aims to discuss existing perspectives on the classification of Industry 5.0 technologies and their underlying role in materializing the sustainability values of this agenda. Design/methodology/approach The study systematically reviewed Industry 5.0 literature based on the PRISMA protocol. The study further employed a detailed content-centric review of eligible documents and conducted evidence mapping to fulfill the research objectives. Findings The advancement of Industry 5.0 is currently underway, with noteworthy initial contributions enriching its knowledge base. Although a unanimous definition remains lacking, diverse viewpoints emerge concerning the recognition of fundamental technologies and the potential for yielding sustainable outcomes. The expected contribution of Industry 5.0 to sustainability varies significantly depending on the context and the nature of underlying technologies. Practical implications Industry 5.0 holds the potential for advancing sustainability at both the firm and supply chain levels. It is envisioned to contribute proportionately to the three sustainability dimensions. However, the current discourse primarily dwells in theoretical and conceptual domains, lacking empirical exploration of its practical implications. Originality/value This study comprehensively explores diverse perspectives on Industry 5.0 technologies and their potential contributions to economic, environmental and social sustainability. Despite its promise, the practical evidence supporting the effectiveness of Industry 5.0 remains limited. Certain conditions are necessary to realize the benefits of Industry 5.0 fully, yet the mechanisms behind these conditions require further investigation. In this regard, the study suggests several potential areas for future research.
Purpose: In this retrospective pilot study, we aim to evaluate the accuracy and reliability of the P-POSSUM and ACS-NSQIP surgical risk calculators in predicting postoperative complications in gynaecological–oncological (GO) robotic surgery (RS). Methods: Retrospective data collection undertaken through a dedicated GO database and patient notes at a tertiary referral cancer centre. Following data lock with the actual post-op event/complication, the risk calculators were used to measure predictive scores for each patient. Baseline analysis of 153 patients, based on statistician advice, was undertaken to evaluate P-POSSUM and ACS-NSQIP validity and relevance in GO patients undergoing RS performed. Results: P-POSSUM reports on mortality and morbidity only; ACS-NSQIP reports some individual complications as well. ACS-NSQIP risk prediction was most accurate for venous thromboembolism (VTE) (area under the curve (AUC)-0.793) and pneumonia (AUC-0.657) and it showed 90% accuracy in prediction of five major complications (Brier score 0.01). Morbidity was much better predicted by ACS-NSQIP than by P-POSSUM (AUC-0.608 vs. AUC-0.551) with the same result in mortality prediction (Brier score 0.0000). Moreover, a statistically significant overestimation of morbidity has been shown by the P-POSSUM calculator (p = 0.018). Conclusions: Despite the limitations of this pilot study, the ACS-NSQIP risk calculator appears to be a better predictor of major complications and mortality, making it suitable for use by GO surgeons as an informed consent tool. Larger data collection and analyses are ongoing to validate this further.
Purpose: The aims of this study were to examine the learning of anticipation skill in the presence of kinematic and outcome probabilities information, and to see if this learning exhibited characteristics of Bayesian integration. Method: Participants with no competitive tennis playing experience watched tennis player stimuli playing forehand tennis shots and were tasked with predicted shot outcomes. Accuracy, response times and perceived task effort were recorded, pre, post and during four acquisition blocks where outcome feedback was provided. In both Experiment 1 and 2, kinematic information about shot direction was either present in the training group stimuli or absent. In Experiment 1, left/right shot probability information remained equi-probable for both groups. In Experiment 2, both groups also trained with a bias in the shot outcome probability toward one shot direction on 80% of the trials across acquisition blocks (and were not told about this manipulation). Results: Pre-to-post anticipation performance improved in the presence of kinematic (EXP 1) or both information sources (EXP 2). Pre-to-post improvements in the presence of shot outcome probability information were congruent with the bias in the shot direction trained (EXP 2). Superior anticipation performance was found when both information sources were present. The presence of kinematic information resulted in increased perceived effort during early training (EXP 1 & 2). Bayesian odds ratios indicated that shot direction probabilities and kinematic information were integrated during anticipation skill learning. Conclusion: Learning with shot direction probabilities and kinematic information shows characteristics of Bayesian integration.
Recent advances in deep learning (DL) have brought tremendous gains in signal modulation classification.However, DL-based classifiers lack transparency and interpretability, which raises concern about model's reliability and hinders the wide deployment in real-word applications.While explainable methods have recently emerged, little has been done to explain the DLbased signal modulation classifiers.In this work, we propose a novel model-agnostic explainer, MASE, which provides explanations for the predictions of black-box modulation classifiers.With the subsequence-based signal interpretable representation and in-distribution local signal sampling, MASE learns a local linear surrogate model to derive a class activation vector which assigns importance values to the timesteps of signal instance.Besides, the constellation-based explanation visualization is adopted to spotlight the important signal features relevant to model prediction.We furthermore propose the first generic quantitative explanation evaluation framework for signal modulation classification to automatically measure the faithfulness, sensitivity, robustness and efficiency of explanations.Extensive experiments are conducted on two real-world datasets with four black-box signal modulation classifiers.The quantitative results indicate MASE outperforms two state-of-the-art methods with 44.7% improvement in faithfulness, 30.6% improvement in robustness and 44.1% decrease in sensitivity.Through qualitative visualizations, we further demonstrate the explanations of MASE are more human interpretable and provide better understanding into the reliability of black-box model decisions.
Recent scholarship has highlighted the heterogeneity of second-generation Irish identities in Great Britain, yet the varieties of self-identification espoused by the English-raised children of Northern Irish parents remain almost wholly unexplored. This article redresses this neglect by examining the relationship between parentally transmitted memories of the Northern Ireland Troubles (c.1969–1998) and the forms of identity and self-understanding that such children develop during their lives in England. Drawing on original oral history testimony and using the concepts of narrative inheritance and postmemory as interpretive tools, it demonstrates the complex correlation that exists between parents’ diverse approaches to memory-sharing and their children’s negotiation of inherited conflict memory as they position themselves discursively within contemporary English society. Based on a close reading of five oral history interviews, the analysis reveals a spectrum of creative postmemory practices and identity enactments, whereby narrators agentively define themselves in relation to the meanings they attribute to inherited memories, or the dearth thereof, as they navigate their tangled transnational affinities and allegiances. The article also explores how these practices and enactments are subtly responsive to narrators’ changing relationships to their narrative inheritances as their experience and awareness of their own and their parents’ lives deepen over the life course.
Recent studies of the Covid-19 pandemic have found that millions in Bangladesh fell into poverty during this time, and they were unable to recover to their pre-pandemic economic position. This study draws on qualitative panel data collected from 39 new-poor households in Khulna, coping with pandemic-induced shocks and attempting to come out of poverty. How are the new poor attempting to recover: what strategies are they using and what constraints do they face? What are the implications for governance of their efforts? Based on their pre-pandemic economic conditions, we divide these new-poor households into two categories: those that were ‘never poor’ and ‘the vulnerable non-poor’ households. All the new-poor households we engaged with used a variety of strategies to cope and recover which included financial strategies such as borrowing money, livelihood strategies such as having multiple occupations, cost-reduction strategies such as decreasing expenditure on health and education, and social safety strategies such as accessing social protection. The main constraints that these households faced were many. These included their inability to access loans and access finances, limited access to social protection, lack of trust and expectations from the local government to provide services to aid their recovery, and social norms around honour and shame which limited their ability to seek assistance or have female members of the household engage in an income-generating activity. Most ‘never-poor’ households were recovering while most of the vulnerable households were stuck. Governance implications of the experiences of these households include the state playing a bigger role in supporting the new poor, limiting the role intermediaries and informal networks play in how social protection is provided, strengthening practices that build trust in local government, and tackling corruption.
Recent years have seen a dramatic growth in interest in the nature and extent of co-production in the health and social care sectors. Due to the intense proliferation of work on co-production, there is intense variation in practice in how co-production is defined, understood and used in practice.
Recently, there has been an emphasis on keeping the study of anatomy using donor material confined to the domain of medical and allied healthcare professionals. Given the abundance of both accurate and inaccurate information online, coupled with a heightened focus on health following the COVID-19 pandemic, one may question whether it is time to review who can access learning anatomy using donors. In 2019, Brighton and Sussex Medical School (BSMS) obtained a Human Tissue Authority Public Display license with the aim of broadening the reach of who could be taught using donor material. In 2020, BSMS received its first full-body donor with consent for public display. Twelve workshops were delivered to student groups who do not normally have the opportunity to learn in the anatomy laboratory. Survey responses (10.9% response rate) highlighted that despite being anxious about seeing inside a deceased body, 95% felt more informed about the body. A documentary "My Dead Body" was filmed, focusing on the rare cancer of the donor Toni Crews. Viewing figures of 1.5 million, and a considerable number of social media comments highlighted the public's interest in the documentary. Thematic analysis of digital and social media content highlighted admiration and gratitude for Toni, the value of education, and that while the documentary was uncomfortable to watch, it had value in reminding viewers of life, their bodies, and their purpose. Fully consented public display can create opportunities to promote health-conscious life choices and improve understanding of the human body.
Religion and spirituality are under-explored in occupational science and no research to date has addressed religious disaffiliation from an occupational perspective. This research explores the subjective experiences of second-generation adults (SGAs) who have disaffiliated from the new religious movement (NRM) in which they were raised, and challenges assumptions that engagement in religious practice is necessarily based on individual choice or automatically has positive impact on well-being. An auto/biographical approach was adopted and reflexive thematic analysis used to analyse secondary data from six podcast interviews with SGAs who disaffiliated from a NRM. Three main themes were identified: Transition, Doing things, and New self. Findings show the occupational impact of disaffiliation and how the interviewees experienced transition, reconstructed their identities, and found new belonging through the interrelated dimensions of doing, being, becoming, and belonging, as defined in the Pan Occupational Paradigm. The findings build upon research that considers the multidimensional relationship between these dimensions by providing a novel exploration of the experiences of people who have ended their connection with a NRM. This study highlights a need for further research into experiences of religious disaffiliation and the impact of affiliation with high-demand groups.
Research into hallucinatory experiences has focused primarily upon hallucinations within the auditory modality, to the relative neglect of other modalities. Furthermore, the exploration of auditory hallucinations (or 'voices') has focused primarily upon the experiences of people with a diagnosis of psychosis. The presence of multi-modal hallucinations may have implications across diagnoses for levels of distress, formulation and the targeting of psychological interventions. This study presents a cross-sectional analysis of observational data from the PREFER survey (N = 335). Linear regression was used to explore the relationships between voice-related distress and the presence, number, type and timing of multi-modal hallucinations. Simple relationships were not found between distress and the presence of hallucinations in visual, tactile, olfactory or gustatory modalities, or in the number of modalities experienced. When considering the degree to which another modality hallucination was experienced simultaneously with voices, there was some evidence that the degree of co-occurrence with visual hallucinations was predictive of distress. The co-occurrence of voices with visual hallucinations may be associated with relatively greater distress, but not consistently, and the association between multimodal hallucinations and clinical impact appear complex and potentially variable from individual to individual. Further study of associated variables such as perceived voice power may further illuminate these relationships.
Research questionTo investigate the views and experiences of patient and expert stakeholders on the positive and negative impacts of commercial influences on the provision of assisted reproductive technology services and to document their suggestions for governance reforms.DesignSemi-structured interviews with 31ART industry experts from across Australia and New Zealand and 25 ART patients from metropolitan and regional Australia, between September 2020 and September 2021. Data were analysed using thematic analysis.ResultsExpert and patient participants considered that commercial forces influence provision of ART in a number of positive ways—increasing sustainability, ensuring consistency in standards and providing patients with greater choice. Participants also considered commercial forces to have a number of negative impacts, including increased costs to government and patients; excessive use of interventions that lack sufficient evidence to be considered part of standard care; inadequately informed consent (particularly with regard to financial information); and threats to patient-provider relationships and patient-centred care. Participants varied in whether they believed that professional self-regulation is sufficient. While recognising the benefits of commercial investment in health care, many considered that regulatory reforms, as well as organisational cultural initiatives, are needed as means to ensure the primacy of patient wellbeing.ConclusionsThe views expressed in this study should be systematically and critically examined to derive insights into how best to govern ART. These insights may also inform the design and delivery of other types of healthcare that are provided in the private sector.
Review of the book&amp;nbsp;&lt;i&gt;"Empire of Normality: Neurodiversity and Capitalism"&lt;/i&gt;&amp;nbsp;edited by Robert Chapman.
Robert Hamilton (1749–1830) was born in Coleraine, Ireland, attended medical school in Edinburgh, Scotland, served in the British army and practised in South-East England. In order to differentiate him from his contemporary and namesake, Hamilton is identified by having worked in Ipswich, Suffolk and Colchester, Essex. This submission considers Hamilton's biography, his 1787 book on the British regimental surgeon and his ideas therein about professionalism. Central to his concept of professionalism is ‘tenderness’, a notion that broadly equates to empathy. He notes that tenderness brings improvement in clinical outcome and he has the foresight to recognise nurses as key to such care. The authors explore the concept of ‘consulting in the dark’, i.e. without access to clinical investigations. This is exemplified by doctors of the eighteenth century and earlier. Today general practitioners must still be comfortable ‘consulting in the dark’, e.g. when attending a patient's home. Hamilton's biography offers a further example of ‘consulting in the dark’: In later life, he lost his vision but continued to practise successfully. Central to his gift of consulting ‘in the dark’ was likely to be ‘tenderness’ for his patients, expressed through language and gentle touch. Hamilton's entreaty for ‘tenderness’ contrasts with modern medical education where reliance upon clinical tests, technology and pharmacology risksblinding young doctors towards patients and their lives.
Rocking of a non-symmetric block on a compliant horizontally-moving base is explored for the first time in this paper through a combination of analytical, numerical and experimental approaches. A compliant base model is proposed, which is shown to have good overall accuracy, in particular predicting when rocking will be initiated. The proposed model predicts a significantly lower rocking threshold, which is much more sensitive to the eccentricity of the centre of mass, in comparison with the threshold determined assuming the base is rigid. The proposed model predicts that a highly non-symmetrical block, with its centre of mass outside the middle third of its base, will have uplifted even when it is at rest and no horizontal excitation is applied. The proposed model also predicts lower overturning thresholds, which is because the static overturning angles reduce when the compliance of the base is accounted for. The proposed compliant base model provides an accurate tool suitable for the design of base isolation systems for the seismic protection of freestanding museum artefacts or mechanical equipment, as evidenced by the extensive numerical and experimental test results presented in this paper.
Scabies is a neglected tropical disease (NTD) with high prevalence rate in resource-limited settings. Though street children are susceptible because of lack of sanitation and contact with vectors, few attempts have been made to identify the lived experience of street children with scabies in the global south. This study explored perceived susceptibility to scabies and related lived experiences of street children in Addis Ababa. Using in-depth interviews, we collected qualitative data from selected children of the street to identify their understanding of the causes of scabies, their experiences of managing the condition, and their health-seeking behavior. Informants were recruited to include maximum variation in terms of age, sex, and experience of infestation. The study showed that scabies was common among street children and that the infestation has physical, psychological and social impacts. Study participants believed that scabies had its origin in their living conditions (including poor environmental sanitation and lack of personal hygiene), with lice playing a significant role as vectors of transmission. The informants reported visiting modern healthcare facilities, traditional healers and self-care in response to infestation. By uncovering the embodied experience of a stigmatized skin NTD in a neglected community in the global south, this study contributes to combating neglect and addressing health disparities. Having identified living conditions as the major factor contributing to susceptibility, efforts need to be exerted to change street children’s living situations and other structural conditions through reunification with their families or other communities, reintegration and other exit strategies.
Scabies undermines quality of life through its highly disturbing disease symptoms, by distorting self-perception, and secondary to social stigma. Knowledge of its effect on quality of life in general and on specific aspects of day-to-day life is key to addressing the health needs of individual patients and to evaluating gains from community-based disease control interventions.
Sensory hair cells, including the sensorimotor outer hair cells, which enable the sensitive, sharply tuned responses of the mammalian cochlea, are excited by radial shear between the organ of Corti and the overlying tectorial membrane. It is not currently possible to measure directly in vivo mechanical responses in the narrow cleft between the tectorial membrane and organ of Corti over a wide range of stimulus frequencies and intensities. The mechanical responses can, however, be derived by measuring hair cell receptor potentials. We demonstrate that the seemingly complex frequency- and intensity-dependent behavior of outer hair cell receptor potentials could be qualitatively explained by a two degrees of freedom system with local cochlear partition and tectorial membrane resonances strongly coupled by the outer hair cell stereocilia. A local minimum in the receptor potential below the characteristic frequency should always be observed at a frequency where the tectorial membrane mechanical impedance is minimal, i.e., at the presumed tectorial membrane resonance frequency. The tectorial membrane resonance frequency might, however, shift with stimulus intensity in accordance with a shift in the maximum of the tectorial membrane radial mechanical responses to lower frequencies, as observed in experiments.
Sentiment analysis is a technique used to understand the publics’ opinion towards an event, product, or organization. For example, positive or negative opinion or attitude towards electric vehicle (EV) brands. This provides companies with valuable insight about the public&amp;#039;s opinion of their products and brands. In the field of natural language processing (NLP), transformer models have shown great performances over the traditional machine learning algorithms. However, these models have not been explored extensively in the EV domain. EV companies are becoming signif-icant competitors in the automotive industry and are projected to cover up to 30% of the United States light vehicle market by 2030 [1]. In this study, we present a comparative study of large language models (LLMs) including bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT), robustly optimized BERT approach and generalized autoregressive pretraining for language un-derstanding using Lucid motors and Tesla motors YouTube datasets. Results evidenced LLMs like BERT and her variants are off-the-shelf algorithms for sentiment analysis, specifically, when fi-ne-tuned. Furthermore, our findings presents the need for domain adaptation whilst utilizing LLMs. Finally, the experimental results showed that RoBERTa achieved consistent performance across the EV datasets with a F1 score of at least 92%.
Serotonin, a monoamine neurotransmitter, is important in both the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system. Malfunction of serotonin signaling leads to various disorders. We studied serotonin signaling from serotonergic neurons inside the ventral nerve cord of Drosophila melanogaster. Serotonergic neurons and stimulated release were visualized and achieved with mCherry and channelrhodopsin‐2, an optogenetically transfected ion channel, respectively, and two electrochemical techniques quantified serotonin release and vesicular content. Mean vesicular serotonin content released during exocytosis from these neurons was 84%, considerably higher than previous studies regarding octopamine (4.5%) and glutamate release (31%). Serotonin content within all vesicles is uniformly changed when serotonin concentration is inhibited or enhanced. However, serotonin release exhibits two Gaussian distributions: higher frequency of small release events, and similar or slightly higher frequency of large events, resulting in differential release fractions ranging from partial (30 to 35%) to full (100%) release after treatment with agents to either enhance or diminish release. This is the first example of consistent full exocytotic release events we have observed in any system. We suggest one pool of vesicles can release significantly diverse fractions of transmitter load during exocytosis, a potentially novel pathway to regulate exocytosis and neuronal signaling.
Serotonin, a monoamine neurotransmitter, is important in both the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system. Malfunction of serotonin signaling leads to various disorders. We studied serotonin signaling from serotonergic neurons inside the ventral nerve cord of Drosophila melanogaster. Serotonergic neurons and stimulated release were visualized and achieved with mCherry and channelrhodopsin‐2, an optogenetically transfected ion channel, respectively, and two electrochemical techniques quantified serotonin release and vesicular content. Mean vesicular serotonin content released during exocytosis from these neurons was 84%, considerably higher than previous studies regarding octopamine (4.5%) and glutamate release (31%). Serotonin content within all vesicles is uniformly changed when serotonin concentration is inhibited or enhanced. However, serotonin release exhibits two Gaussian distributions: higher frequency of small release events, and similar or slightly higher frequency of large events, resulting in differential release fractions ranging from partial (30 to 35%) to full (100%) release after treatment with agents to either enhance or diminish release. This is the first example of consistent full exocytotic release events we have observed in any system. We suggest one pool of vesicles can release significantly diverse fractions of transmitter load during exocytosis, a potentially novel pathway to regulate exocytosis and neuronal signaling.
Sexuality education (SE) can be acquired through different sources. In a cross-sectional online study with Spanish and Portuguese participants ( N = 595), we examined differences between formal traditional sources (i.e., mandatory SE received in schools), formal modern sources (e.g., SE received in courses), informal traditional sources (e.g., talks with friends and family), and informal modern sources (e.g., pornography and online content) and their contribution to sexual health and well-being outcomes. Results showed that sexual and reproductive health were among the most addressed topics across all sources. Nearly all participants received SE from informal sources, whereas more than two-thirds received SE from formal traditional sources. Results of a linear regression model showed that participants who perceived more influence from formal traditional sources reported using condoms more often, were more focused on disease prevention, and enacted more sexual health communication, but were also less sex-positive. Participants who perceived more influence from both types of informal sources attributed more importance to SE topics but reported having condomless sex more frequently and were more focused on pleasure promotion. Still, participants who perceived more influence from informal traditional sources also endorsed more internal/external consent, were more sexually satisfied, were more sex-positive, and enacted more sexual health practices. Lastly, participants who perceived more influence from informal modern sources were also more likely to have been diagnosed with a sexually transmitted infection. Only a small proportion of participants received SE from formal modern sources and had to be excluded from this analysis. Some differences between Spain and Portugal are discussed. Taken together, our findings highlight the need to consider different sources for a more comprehensive and inclusive SE, in articulation with sociocultural and political contexts.
Sleep is often compromised in female athletes, and the monitoring of female athletes' sleep is an important preventative and educational tool. With self-reporting of sleep common practice for athletes as part of a daily wellness assessment, there is a need to understand whether sleep indices are being reported accurately, and thus whether self-report data are useful. This study aimed to compare the agreement between self-reported and actigraphy reported sleep duration in female football players, with the intention of informing best practice for athlete monitoring. Twenty-two female footballers (mean age 19.5 ± 1.3 years) provided a daily self-report across 7 days, whilst also wearing an actigraph across the same testing period. Agreement between the two measures was assessed using Bland-Altman limits of agreement, with acceptable limits of agreement defined as <30 minutes. Results showed evident disagreement between the two methods, with a mean bias of -0.54 (32 min, 95% CI -0.66 to -0.43) and a potential disagreement range of over 2 h (Lower 95% limits of agreement -1.49 to upper 95% limits of agreement 0.40). Coaches using self-reported sleep durations as a monitoring tool for female footballers should interpret the results with caution and be aware of the potential for inaccuracies in this measure. As such, where possible, coaches should consider other methods of sleep monitoring, rather than solely relying on a self-report, to ensure they are operating with optimal practice within situational constraints.
Social isolation is a chronic mild stressor and a significant risk factor for mental health disorders. Herein we explored the impact of social isolation on depression- and anxiety-like behaviours, as well as spatial memory impairments, in middle-aged male mice compared to post-weaning mice. We aimed to quantify and correlate social isolation-induced behaviour discrepancies with changes in hippocampal glial cell reactivity and pro-inflammatory cytokine levels. Post-weaning and middle-aged C57BL7/J6 male mice were socially isolated for a 3-week period and behavioural tests were performed on the last five days of isolation. We found that 3 weeks of social isolation led to depressive-like behaviour in the forced swim test, anxiety-like behaviour in the open field test, and spatial memory impairment in the Morris water maze paradigm in middle-aged male mice. These behavioural alterations were not observed in male mice after post-weaning social isolation, indicating resilience to isolation-mediated stress. Increased Iba-1 expression and NLRP3 priming were both observed in the hippocampus of socially isolated middle-aged mice, suggesting a role for microglia and NLRP3 pathway in the detrimental effects of social isolation on cognition and behaviour. Young socially isolated mice also demonstrated elevated NLRP3 priming compared to controls, but no differences in Iba-1 levels and no significant changes in behaviour. Ageing-induced microglia activation and enhancement of IL-1β, TNF-α and IL-6 proinflammatory cytokines, known signs of a chronic low-grade inflammatory state, were also detected. Altogether, data suggest that social isolation, in addition to inflammaging, contributes to stress-related cognitive impairment in middle-aged mice.
Socioeconomic status (SES) is associated with dementia. However, the role of SES transitions in dementia is less explored; such evidence would be useful to understand whether social mobility is associated with healthy longevity at older ages.
Soil-structure interaction of structures protected by Geotechnical Seismic Isolation (GSI) system is investigated in this paper through a novel nonlinear approach.Preisach formalism is adopted to model the hysteretic behaviour of the soil through simplified nonlinear springs and dashpots.The efficiency of GSI versus natural soil is explored through extensive nonlinear numerical analyses on a benchmark structure.Comparisons with the currently adopted equivalent linear approach are also presented, highlighting the versatility of the proposed nonlinear model to reliably represent the nonlinear behaviour of the coupled structure-GSI system.
Some research has shown that spending time with dogs improves human well-being. However, findings regarding the impact of dogs on human well-being and the underpinning explanatory mechanisms have been inconsistent. There is potential to support existing theoretical mechanisms, modify existing ideas, and discover new ones by using participant's own descriptions and beliefs regarding their relationships with their dogs. This study utilises a thematic analysis to examine semi-structured interviews of eight undergraduate students who had experienced dog ownership. Five themes were identified that suggest routes to well-being via dog ownership: the benefits of the care routine, the mood boosting effect of dogs, the facilitation of human–human bonds, the provision of unconditional love, and that any negative experiences are ultimately worth it. This study provides a valuable insight into how dog owners make sense of their relationship with their dogs, via everyday realities, contextualising this through the lens of human well-being.
South Downs National Park (SDNP) is UK's most visited National Park, and a focus of tick-borne Lyme disease. The first presumed UK autochthonous cases of tick-borne encephalitis and babesiosis were recorded in 2019-20. SDNP aims to conserve wildlife and encourage recreation, so interventions are needed that reduce hazard without negatively affecting ecosystem health. To be successful these require knowledge of site hazards.
teaches criminology and sociology at the
Tendinopathy is a common age-related disease which causes significant morbidity for both human athletes and performance horses. In the latter, the superficial digital flexor tendon is an excellent model for human tendinopathies because it is a functional homologue of the human Achilles tendon and a primary site of injuries with strong similarities to the human disease. Corticosteroids have been previously used clinically to treat tendinopathic inflammation, but they upregulate the p53-p21 axis with concomitant reductions in cell proliferation and collagen synthesis in human tenocytes. This phenotype is consistent with the induction of cellular senescence in vitro and in vivo and probably represents an important clinical barrier to their effective use. Because of the many differences in senescence mechanisms between species, this study aimed to evaluate these mechanisms after corticosteroid treatment in equine tenocytes. Exposure to clinically reflective levels of dexamethasone for 48 hours drove equine tenocytes into steroid induced senescence (SIS). This was characterised by permanent growth arrest and upregulation of p53, the cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors p21 waf and p16 ink4a as well as the matrix degrading enzymes MMP1, MMP2 and MMP13. SIS also induced a distinctive equine senescence associated secretory phenotype (eSASP) characterised by enhanced secretion of IL-8 and MCP-1. Preincubation with resveratrol or the potent SIRT1 activator SRT1720 prevented SIS in equine tenocytes, while treatment with the non-SIRT1 activating resveratrol analogue V29 was equally protective against SIS, consistent with a novel, as yet uncharacterised SIRT1-indendent mechanism which has relevance for the development of future preventative and therapeutic strategies.
The accurate estimation of the state of charge (SOC) in lithium-ion batteries plays a pivotal role in battery management systems. This paper proposes an improved adaptive extended Kalman filter (IAEKF) algorithm for more precise SOC estimation. Initially, a novel characteristic parameter is introduced to assess the suitability of the forgetting factor in the adaptive forgetting factor recursive least squares (AFFRLS) algorithm. This evaluation aims to improve the accuracy of recognizing the parameters of the battery model. Additionally, an even function with adjustable parameters is constructed to solve the appropriate value for the forgetting factor. Subsequently, the correlation coefficients of the residual series at different moments are approximated by mathematical transformations that link the inner products of the column vectors in the constructed residual matrix to the calculation of the correlation coefficients. By comparing it with optimized thresholds using particle swarm optimization, one can adjust the sliding window length to enhance the estimation accuracy of IAEKF. The experimental results confirm that IAEKF achieves superior estimation accuracy and robustness compared to other AEKF algorithms, and the accuracy of AFFRLS parameter identification is higher than that of recursive least squares, thereby substantiating the effectiveness of the proposed algorithms.
The advancement of technology has led to a significant increase in thermal loads, thus presenting new challenges in heat dissipation. Traditional single-phase cooling systems are often inadequate to meet these demands. As a result, phase-change technologies utilizing boiling and condensation, which can achieve high heat transfer coefficients, have garnered considerable attention. To delve into the complex physics of boiling heat transfer, researchers are increasingly turning to numerical simulation methods such as the Volume of Fluid (VOF) and the Diffuse Interface (DI) approaches. The VOF method, widely employed for macro-scale simulations ranging from micrometers to millimeters, effectively tracks bubble growth and detachment. Conversely, the DI method represents the interface as a continuous phase field and is primarily used for mesoscale simulations spanning from nanometers to micrometers. While the DI method excels in resolving mesoscale interfacial phenomena, it is computationally expensive for larger domains. Considering the strengths and weaknesses of both the VOF and DI methods, there is a growing interest in developing a multi-scale modeling approach that amalgamates their benefits. To pursue this objective, initial efforts are being made to evaluate the scaling capability of VOF towards lower spatial and temporal limits. Hence, an enhanced and customized VOF methodology has been developed within the OpenFOAM toolbox. This methodology is employed to investigate various bubble growth scenarios, progressively exploring its applicability at lower temporal and spatial scales to identify the lower limits of its application. By taking this first step towards combining the strengths of both the VOF and DI methods through a multi-scale modeling approach, the presented paper paves the way for enhancing the accuracy and efficiency of modelling approaches for boiling heat transfer while tackling a challenge associated with varying spatial and temporal scales. This endeavor not only pushes the boundaries of computational fluid dynamics but also holds promise for addressing real-world thermal management issues in diverse technological applications.
The aim of this article is to follow Honig's intention of thinking inoperativity as a form of refusal. It demonstrates that Agamben's inoperativity entails an intensification of use that can circumvent the pitfalls associated with the language of 'demands,' or the need to rescue the city as the space of the political par excellence, all while preserving its potential for instituting change. I claim that all destitution entails instituting practices and forms of experimentation that modify the subject, and that, with the help of Agamben, subjects are nothing other than these modifications. The wager of this short intervention, therefore, is that a form of refusal that pays critical attention not only to the suspension but also to the intensification of use that this suspension inherently entails is attainable, all while acknowledging that the city is shaped by anti-blackness.
The aim of this FEPSAC Position Statement is to summarize current knowledge about athletes' dual careers (DCs) in the European context and propose recommendations for future DC research, practice, and policy. Inspired by the European Union's Guidelines on Dual Careers of Athletes (European Commission, 2012), researchers, practitioners, and policy makers collaborated over the last decade to create the European DC discourse as a context-informed and negotiated body of DC knowledge. In this paper, we proceed from analyzing this body of knowledge using recent review papers and European DC psychological research projects to formulating seven postulates summarizing DC research findings on factors influencing athletes in their striving for DC excellence. These factors include (1) context, (2) pathways and transitions, (3) challenges, (4) resources and coping, (5) support and empowerment, (6) student–athletes' mental health, and (7) DC development environments. In the final section, we acknowledge the contributions of European DC discourse in serving athletes in their pursuit of DC excellence and European DC culture. We also provide a critical discussion on DC knowledge gaps and, on behalf of FEPSAC, offer recommendations for DC research, practice, and policy in Europe.
The aim of this research was to describe the epidemiology, presentation and healthcare use in primary care for foot and ankle problems in children and young people (CYP) across England. We undertook a population-based cohort study using data from the Clinical Practice Research Datalink Aurum database, a database of anonymised electronic health records from general practices across England. Data was accessed for all CYP aged 0-18 years presenting to their general practitioner between January 2015 and December 2021 with a foot and/or ankle problem. Consultation rates were calculated and used to estimate numbers of consultations in an average practice. Hierarchical Poisson regression estimated relative rates of consultations across sociodemographic groups and logistic regression evaluated factors associated with repeat consultations. A total of 416,137 patients had 687,753 foot and ankle events, of which the majority were categorised as "musculoskeletal" (34%) and "unspecified pain" (21%). Rates peaked at 601 consultations per 10,000 patient-years among males aged 10-14 years in 2018. An average practice might observe 132 (95% CI 110 to 155) consultations annually. Odds for repeat consultations were higher among those with pre-existing diagnoses including juvenile arthritis (OR 1.73, 95% CI 1.48 to 2.03). Conclusions: Consultations for foot and ankle problems were high among CYP, particularly males aged 10 to 14 years. These data can inform service provision to ensure CYP access appropriate health professionals for accurate diagnosis and treatment. What is Known: • Foot and ankle problems can have considerable impact on health-related quality of life in children and young people (CYP). • There is limited data describing the nature and frequency of foot and ankle problems in CYP. What is New: • Foot and ankle consultations were higher in English general practice among CYP aged 10 to 14 years compared to other age groups, and higher among males compared to females. • The high proportion of unspecified diagnoses and repeat consultations suggests there is need for greater integration between general practice and allied health professionals in community-based healthcare settings.
The application of novel geochemical provenancing techniques has changed our understanding of the construction of Stonehenge, by identifying West Woods on the Marlborough Downs as the likely source area for the majority of the extant sarsen megaliths at the monument. In this study, we apply the same techniques to saccharoid sarsen fragments from three excavations within and outwith the main Sarsen Circle to expand our understanding of the provenance of sarsen debitage present at the monument. Through pXRF analysis, we demonstrate that the surface geochemistry of 1,028 excavated sarsen fragments is significantly affected by subsurface weathering following burial in a way that cannot be overcome by simple cleaning. However, we show that this effect is surficial and does not have a volumetrically significant impact, thus permitting the subsequent use of whole-rock analytical methods. Comparison of ICP-AES and ICP-MS trace element data from 54 representative sarsen fragments with equivalent data from Stone 58 at Stonehenge demonstrates that none are debitage produced during the dressing of this megalith or its 49 chemical equivalents at the monument. Further inspection of the ICP-MS data reveals that 22 of these fragments fall into three distinct geochemical 'families'. None of these families overlap with the geochemical signature of Stone 58 and its chemical equivalents, implying that sarsen imported from at least a further three locations (in addition to West Woods) is present at Stonehenge. Comparison of immobile trace element signatures from the 54 excavated sarsen fragments against equivalent data for 20 sarsen outcrop areas across southern Britain shows that 15 of the fragments can be linked to specific localities. Eleven of these were likely sourced from Monkton Down, Totterdown Wood and West Woods on the Marlborough Downs (25–33 km north of Stonehenge). Three fragments likely came from Bramdean, Hampshire (51 km southeast of Stonehenge), and one from Stoney Wish, East Sussex (123 km to the southeast). Technological analysis and refitting shows that one of the fragments sourced from Monkton Down was part of a 25.7 cm × 17.9 cm flake removed from the outer surface of a large sarsen boulder, most probably during on-site dressing. This adds a second likely source area for the sarsen megaliths at Stonehenge in addition to West Woods. At this stage, we can only speculate on why sarsen from such diverse sources is present at Stonehenge. We do not know whether the fragments analysed by ICP-MS were removed from (i) the outer surface of Stones 26 or 160 (which are chemically distinct to the other extant sarsen megaliths), (ii) one of the c.28 sarsen megaliths and lintels from the c.60 erected during Stage 2 of the construction of Stonehenge that may now be missing from the monument, or (iii) one of the dismantled and destroyed sarsen megaliths associated with Stage 1 of the monument. With the exception of the fragment sourced from Monkton Down, it is also possible that the analysed fragments were (iv) pieces of saccharoid sarsen hammerstones or their pre-forms, or (v) small blocks brought on-site for ceremonial or non-ceremonial purposes.
The Cass Report aimed to provide recommendations for how services for gender diverse children and young people should be delivered in England. Our critical appraisal reveals significant methodological and conceptual flaws within the report and the research commissioned to inform the report, which included seven systematic reviews and both quantitative and qualitative primary research. Using the ROBIS tool, we identified a high risk of bias in each of the systematic reviews driven by unexplained protocol deviations, ambiguous eligibility criteria, inadequate study identification, and the failure to integrate consideration of these limitations into the conclusions derived from the evidence syntheses. We also identified potential sources of bias and unsubstantiated claims in the primary research that suggest a double standard in the quality of evidence produced for the Cass Report compared to quality appraisal in the systematic reviews. We discuss these issues in relation to how evidence regarding gender affirming care is framed, the wider political context, and the future for gender affirming care. To uphold evidence-based medicine, future gender-affirming care research must generate robust observational data, involve transgender communities, and prioritise patient-centred outcomes, ensuring validity, generalisability, and cultural relevance. The Cass Report’s recommendations, given its methodological flaws and misrepresentation of evidence, warrant critical scrutiny to ensure ethical and effective support for gender-diverse youth.
The concept of One Health has been developed as the appreciation that human health is intricately connected to those of other animals and the environment that they inhabit. In recent years, the COVID-19 pandemic and noticeable effects of climate change have encouraged national and international cooperation to apply One Health strategies to address key issues of health and welfare. The United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals have established targets for health and wellbeing, clean water and sanitation, climate action, as well as sustainability in marine and terrestrial ecosystems. The One Health Quadripartite comprises the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Organization for Animal Health (WOAH—formerly OIE), the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). There are six areas of focus which are Laboratory services, Control of zoonotic diseases, Neglected tropical diseases, Antimicrobial resistance, Food safety and Environmental health. This article discusses the concept of One Health by considering examples of infectious diseases and environmental issues under each of those six headings. Biomedical Scientists, Clinical Scientists and their colleagues working in diagnostic and research laboratories have a key role to play in applying the One Health approach to key areas of healthcare in the 21st Century.
The concept of quantitative MR (qMR) has existed for over three decades, offering direct access to biology and physiology, yet its implementation is still not straightforward or widespread. It has failed to translate into the clinic. Thus it is important to understand why this might be. Multi-centre studies show large differences between MR machines; good and convenient accuracy (closeness to the true value) and precision (repeatability) remain elusive. The development of suitable phantoms is a key stage in the evolution of qMR, and here a systematic categorisation is proposed. Currently there is much attention paid to creating phantoms containing materials with metrologically traceable values of MR quantities. However these simple phantoms are usually unrealistic; many of the disrupting phenomena present in clinical imaging are absent. These include RF B1 nonuniformity, and are a particular problem in body (as opposed to head) imaging, and at fields of 3T and above. Thus there is a premium on developing realistic phantoms. A proposal made for a realistic body phantom that includes RF B1 imperfections. It consists of lossy annuli placed around a standard head phantom.
The control of gene expression is a fundamental process essential for correct development and to maintain homeostasis. Many post-transcriptional mechanisms exist to maintain the correct levels of each RNA transcript within the cell. Controlled and targeted cytoplasmic RNA degradation is one such mechanism with the 5′-3′ exoribonuclease Pacman (XRN1) and the 3′-5′ exoribonuclease Dis3L2 playing crucial roles. Loss of function mutations in either Pacman or Dis3L2 have been demonstrated to result in distinct phenotypes, and both have been implicated in human disease. One mechanism by which gene expression is controlled is through the function of miRNAs which have been shown to be crucial for the control of almost all cellular processes. Although the biogenesis and mechanisms of action of miRNAs have been comprehensively studied, the mechanisms regulating their own turnover are not well understood. Here we characterise the miRNA landscape in a natural developing tissue, the Drosophila melanogaster wing imaginal disc, and assess the importance of Pacman and Dis3L2 on the abundance of miRNAs. We reveal a complex landscape of miRNA expression and show that whilst a null mutation in dis3L2 has a minimal effect on the miRNA expression profile, loss of Pacman has a profound effect with a third of all detected miRNAs demonstrating Pacman sensitivity. We also reveal a role for Pacman in regulating the highly conserved let-7 cluster (containing miR-100, let-7 and miR-125 ) and present a genetic model outlining a positive feedback loop regulated by Pacman which enhances our understanding of the apoptotic phenotype observed in Pacman mutants.
The Coronavirus Disease - 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic significantly impacted healthcare service provision and put diabetic patients at increased risk of adverse health outcomes. We aimed to assess the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the incidence and demographic shift of major lower-limb amputation in diabetic patients.
The COVID-19 pandemic mobilised a multitude of acts of giving and generosity. This article provides a snapshot of giving and generosity among a small sample of individuals in the UK, in a context following years of ungenerous austerity politics. Giving and generous actions played a crucial role in mitigating the negative effects of COVID and we report on data collected using in-depth interviews to understand experiences of giving and generosity. We conceptualise giving and generosity as pro-social or other-focused actions that involve sharing of resources, underpinned by a crossing of the hyphen between self and other. This article explores the ways in which participants were mobilised by perceived social and political injustices and thus we offer a different understanding of giving and generosity as micro-activism that is done with a critical eye turned towards the macro context.
The current ubiquity of online social networks (OSNs) cannot be overstated, and they have over 4.8 billion users worldwide. These platforms have become integrated into modern life, representing an important means of communication and information sharing. However, this widespread popularity has also drawn the attention of cybercriminals, who seek to exploit OSNs using deceptive Uniform Resource Locators (URLs) as their weapons of choice. Conventional URL-classification methods, which rely on post-access features or static analysis, face significant limitations; they struggle to keep pace with the ever-evolving tactics of cybercriminals, and they often lack the granularity required for precise URL categorization. The methodology proposed herein takes a different path, leveraging the power of an artificial neural network (ANN) in tandem with Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) to extract contextual embeddings from URLs. By combining the cutting-edge capabilities of ANNs and BERT, we introduce an efficient approach to safeguarding OSN users from the insidious threats lurking behind deceptive URLs by classifying them into five distinct categories: benign, defacement, phishing, malware, and spam. The proposed approach was found to achieve an impressive accuracy rate of 98.0%, surpassing the previous best of 97.92%. This technique thus has the potential to serve as a crucial defense mechanism for the billions of individuals who rely on OSNs for their social and informational needs.
The dynamics of the last Fennoscandian Ice Sheet (FIS) are relatively well constrained in the Nordic countries. Ice‐sheet dynamics in NW Russia, however, are comparatively less well understood owing to the scale and resolution of existing studies. New large‐scale glacial geomorphological datasets from NW Russia based on high‐resolution remotely sensed imagery allow for an independent reassessment of the extent and dynamics of the FIS during the Younger Dryas and Early Holocene ( c. 12.9–10 ka) in NW Russia. The reconstruction provides a more detailed link between geomorphological expressions of palaeoglaciation than previous proposals. Rather than a continuous Younger Dryas ice marginal zone (IMZ) stretching from Finland to northern Norway, the geomorphological signature of NW Russia reveals 14 IMZs that document discrete stationary ice‐margin positions (possibly standstill and/or readvance events) during the overall retreat. The relative age sequence of the IMZs, supported by an updated numerical age database, suggests that they formed time‐transgressively during the Younger Dryas and Early Holocene rather than contemporaneously. Moreover, specific landform assemblages reveal contrasting glacial landsystems in NW Russia: (i) a northern subpolar glacial landsystem; and (ii) a southern temperate glacial landsystem. The model presented herein provides robust empirical constraints for testing and validating numerical ice‐sheet models and understanding ice‐sheet responses to rapid climate change.
The dynamics, heating and evaporation of sessile water–ethanol droplets on a heated aluminium–magnesium alloy AMg6 plate are investigated experimentally and theoretically. The structured hydrophobic surface of the plate was prepared using laser nanosecond texturing. Time dependencies of the diameter of the contact area, dynamic contact angle, and relative droplet volume at three plate temperatures are found. Three modes of droplet evaporation are identified: spreading (contact diameter (Dc) increases with time), pinning (Dc oscillates about an average value), and mixed mode (Dc decreases with time). The criteria for transition between these modes are suggested based on the maximal amplitude of oscillations of Dc in the pinning mode. The analysis of the experimental results is based on the solution of transient transport equations, using COMSOL Multiphysics and the assumption that Dc is constant which is justified by relatively short durations of spreading and mixed modes. It is demonstrated that the observed time dependencies of relative droplet volume for a wide range of ambient air humidities and plate temperatures agree with those predicted by COMSOL, but differ considerably from those predicted by the previously developed simplified one-dimensional model.
The environmental impact of fossil fuel combustion is driving the search for efficiency and sustainable propulsion systems. Questions remain on what source can meet the high energy requirements for heavy-duty propulsion and standalone systems. The recuperated split cycle engine (SCE) has shown potential for a step change in efficiency compared to conventional compression ignition heavy-duty engines. Combining this engine with hydrogen fuel would also reduce dependence on fossil fuels. This study uses Chemkin-Pro multizone homogeneous charge compression ignition (MZ HCCI) engine model to determine the feasibility of a hydrogen fuelled SCE. The MZ HCCI model represents the expansion cylinder of the SCE and is used to compare hydrogen and diesel in terms of performance and compatibility with the SCE at various valve timings. Results show that, though the IMEP generated by hydrogen is lower than diesel due to lower fuel mass density at higher initial temperatures, it delivers comparable thermal efficiency, with values approaching 60 %. Also, hydrogen shows characteristics well suited to the SCE architecture, indicating that hydrogen and the SCE is a feasible alternative to diesel CI heavy-duty propulsion systems.
The existence of a sequence of comorbidities in childhood—the atopic march—is a matter of debate (Belgrave et al, 2014), and this controversy remains in part because the mechanisms driving these diseases are complex and multifactorial. The work by Graff et al (2023) may therefore be a valuable addition to the field, presenting novel findings to enhance our understanding of the biology of skin–lung crosstalk (Figure 1). Such crosstalk could play a critical role in the progression from FLG-related atopic dermatitis (AD) to asthma in childhood.
The extensive resources needed to train surgeons and maintain skill levels in low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs) are limited and confined to urban settings. Surgical education of remote/rural doctors is, therefore, paramount. Virtual reality (VR) has the potential to disseminate surgical knowledge and skill development at low costs. This study presents the outcomes of the first VR-enhanced surgical training course, 'Global Virtual Reality in Medicine and Surgery', developed through UK-Ugandan collaborations.
The focus of this article is the collaborative creation of Pavlov and the Kingdom of Dogs, a graphic nonfiction novel aimed at highlighting the lives of dogs experimented upon by Ivan Pavlov in late 19th and early 20th-century Russia. The novel delves into the intricate human-canine relationships within the context of St. Petersburg’s scientific, cultural, and political landscape. The collaboration between a researcher, a professional illustrator, and a script editor aimed to challenge anthropocentric narratives prevalent in historical representations of Pavlov and experimental science. Rooted in animal studies and psychology, this project explores the potential of arts-based methods to centre animals and their relationships within historical contexts. It aims to deepen depictions of animal experiences and agency while bridging the gap between human-animal studies and psychology, where attention to animal lives in research settings remains limited. By focusing on Pavlov’s experiments, the project seeks to redefine experimental animals as active historical subjects, contributing to broader discussions on human-animal relationships and ethical responsibilities. The article delineates the theoretical and methodological underpinnings of the graphic novel, provides insights into the comics-based research process, and discusses the affordances and challenges of this approach. It concludes by reflecting on the potential of comics-based research to engage both academic and public audiences, ultimately advocating for a deeper understanding of human-animal entanglements and their implications in contemporary society.
The French textile engineer, Christèle Merter, founded La Gentle Factory in 2014 as a label for capsule collections from the Happychic Group, a large, international men's ready-to-wear fashion retailer. Her objective is to promote simple, yet elegant ‘Made in France’ menswear made from organic materials and recycled products. The case discusses the challenges faced by the entrepreneur as she develops a sustainable clothing brand, first within a large group and then as an independent entrepreneur. The case also describes different forms of sustainable-oriented innovation in fashion and how narrative can aid the building of a new sustainable venture.
The global socioeconomic challenge generated by wounds requires an understanding of healing and non-healing pathways in patients. Also, the interactions occurring between the wound dressing biomaterials with cells relevant to the healing process have not been sufficiently investigated, thus neglecting the role that wound dressing composition can play in healing. Through the study of six cases of acute surgical wounds, the present work analyses the early (24 h post-surgery) interactions of biochemical and cellular components with (i) Atrauman, a device made of knitted woven synthetic polymeric fibre when used as a primary dressing, and (ii) Melolin, a hydrocolloid engineered as two layers of synthetic and cellulose non-woven fibres when used as a secondary dressing. A pathway towards healing could be observed in those cases where endoglin-expressing cells and M2 macrophages were retained by Atrauman fibres at the interface with the wound bed. On the contrary, cases where the secondary dressing Melolin absorbed these cell phenotypes in its mesh resulted in a slower or deteriorating healing process. The data obtained indicate that a subtraction of progenitor cells by Melolin may impair the healing process and that the analysis of the retrieved wound dressings for biomarkers expressed by cells relevant to wound healing may become an additional tool to determine the patient’s prognosis.
The health and well-being benefits of accessing occupations in natural outdoor environments are well evidenced. However, not everyone has access to these spaces and constraints to leisure participation within rural spaces have been relatively unexplored. This study explored the everyday lives of participants of the Mass Observation Project archive to identify constraints to occupational participation within the countryside in the United Kingdom. Thematic analysis was used to interpret data from two collections; one that focused on 'The Countryside' (Winter 2013) and another on 'Identity and Environment' within 'Loneliness and Belonging' (Spring 2019). The study found that social norms, infrastructure, health issues, personal preferences, and a lack of shared experiences all affected participation in occupations. These constraints often corresponded with a disengagement from desired occupational participation. Findings have implications for occupational science in relation to understanding constraints to meaningful participation. There is need for further research around the impact of belonging and meaning on occupational participation and engagement within rural spaces within diverse population groups, particularly in terms of age, socioeconomic resources, and ethnicity.
The higher education (HE) sector benefits every nation's economy and society at large. However, their contributions are challenged by advanced technologies like generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) tools. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive assessment of GenAI tools towards assessment and pedagogic practice and, subsequently, discuss the potential impacts. This study experimented using three assessment instruments from data science, data analytics, and construction management disciplines. Our findings are two-fold: first, the findings revealed that GenAI tools exhibit subject knowledge, problem-solving, analytical, critical thinking, and presentation skills and thus can limit learning when used unethically. Secondly, the design of the assessment of certain disciplines revealed the limitations of the GenAI tools. Based on our findings, we made recommendations on how AI tools can be utilised for teaching and learning in HE.
The importance of children is a universally accepted concept in schools. However, do we actually listen to what children have to say? Rudduck and Fielding [2002. The transformative potential of student voice: Confronting the power issues. Paper presented at BERA Annual Conference, University of Exeter, p. 2] argue that the voices of pupils are 'silent' or 'silenced'. The aim of this study was to listen to the voice of pupils, concerning their experiences in Physical Education (PE) in schools, with the direction of the study being driven (although not co-designed) by pupils and thereafter following the issues that they raised. It involved 154, 14–16-year-old pupils across the two schools, one an independent school and the other a state academy. A focus group in each school (6 pupils per study) drove the direction of the study which then sort breadth through a questionnaire to the whole year group in both schools (154 respondents) and finally depth through 12 individual interviews. A theoretical framework (Social Field Theory) was selected post findings to ensure that it best represented the emergent data. Through this Pupil voice method, five themes emerged, those being Participation, Choice, Pressure, Ability and Development, and Health. These indicated that pupils have vastly different experiences in the PE lesson, in particular, if they are at either end of the ability spectrum. For some it is that of humiliation and censure, and for others it is about success and achievement. The uniqueness of the lesson with regard to physique and the exposure of both skill and body can affect this duality, negatively and positively. This can lead to the desire for, or coerced, (in)visibility for many pupils. Solutions from pupils, at both ends of the ability spectrum, to counter issues in PE involved giving choice of activity and having ability setting for classes.
The infected blood scandal: lessons for clinical research Emma Cave, 1 Bobbie Farsides 2The six year long Infected Blood Inquiry investigated the causes and impacts of NHS treatment with infected blood products in the 1970s and 80s. 1 Thousands of adults and children were infected with HIV and Hepatitis C. The impacts of the biggest treatment disaster in the NHS are wide ranging.Here we focus on research.
The inhibition of DPP-4 is an important therapy for controlling hyperglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2DM). However, the role of DPP-4 in cancer is not yet clear, with some studies suggesting that it may either promote or suppress tumors. This makes it crucial to have personalized treatment for diabetic women with cancer to effectively manage their diabetes whilst and preventing cancer mortality. To address this issue, we conducted an integrative in-silico analysis and systematic review of the literature to comprehensively examine the relationship between DPP-4 expression and the effects of its inhibitors on prevalent female malignancies. We specifically chose studies that examined the effects of DPP-4 expression and DPP-4 inhibition on prevalent cancers in women, such as breast cancer (BC), ovarian cancer (OV), cervical cancer (CC), and endometrial cancer (EC). These studies comprised those conducted both in vivo and in vitro. The review of the literature indicated that DPP-4 inhibition may worsen aggressive traits such as metastasis, EMT, and chemotherapy resistance in BC cells. However, cohort studies on diabetic and BC patients did not confirm these findings. In vitro studies indicate that on OV, DPP-4 upregulation has been shown to prevent metastasis, while cervical cancer (CC) appears to be influenced by DPP-4 expression in terms of cell migration. sitagliptin, a pharmaceutical inhibitor of DPP-4, had a significant impact on reducing adhesion in CC cells in vitro. Overexpression of DPP-4 increased cell migration and proliferation in CC and EC cells, and hence the application of sitagliptin is expected to prevent this effect. On the other hand, the result of in-silico data confirmed that a significant correlation exists between DPP-4 expression and immune cell infiltration in breast, ovarian, cervical squamous cell carcinoma and endocervical adenocarcinoma (CESC) as well as downregulated in these cancers compared to their normal tissue samples. Furthermore, a significant (p < 0.05) effect on OS of BC and CESC patients has been reported due to the elevation of DPP-4 methylation on a specific CPG Island. These findings could aid in creating specialized treatments for diabetic women with specific malignancies, but caution should be exercised when considering the patient's medical history and cancer type.
The International Maritime Organization (IMO) persistently improves policies to mitigate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from maritime operations, emphasizing the significance of operational measures. Simultaneously, heightened recognition of collaborative efforts within the maritime sector has increased the applicability of arrival policies like Just-In-Time Arrival (JITA), aimed at curtailing unnecessary anchorage time and emissions affecting adjacent communities in port vicinities. Nevertheless, ongoing initiatives advocate adopting JITA over the prevailing First Come, First Served (FCFS) policy, which is perceived as inefficient and, in the meantime, fair in the shipping industry. This research introduces an integrated decision support model to facilitate the implementation of a sustainable ship queuing policy by the VTS. The model addresses critical concerns, including the priorities of relevant authorities, the duration of nautical services for incoming vessels, and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions attributable to anchorage waiting times. The decision support framework presented integrates the Fuzzy Analytical Hierarchy Process (FAHP) and PROMETHEE II methodologies; the study’s outcomes suggest that the model significantly reduces ships’ unnecessary CO2 emissions during anchorage waiting periods compared to the FCFS policy, with reduction rates ranging from 32.8% to 45% based on case analysis. Moreover, the proposed model ensures fairness by treating competing arriving ships equitably according to predefined criteria.
The main objective of this research is to evaluate public 'pocket' spaces in Al Wehdat Refugee Camp, Jordan. The paper aims to identify the challenges associated with implementing pocket space upgrades and make visible some opportunities that enhances their socio-economic viability. By doing so, the research seeks to contribute to providing long-term solutions for refugee settlements, going beyond basic shelter provision, and creating community facilities and public spaces to enhance the living conditions and well-being of camp residents. The study addresses three key questions: What are the different types of pocket spaces in the camp? How do community members perceive their potential uses? What are the challenges and opportunities for implementing pocket space upgrades in Al Wehdat camp? The research utilised mapping and semi-structured interviews, which revealed various pocket space types. This exposed distinct pattern of public space appropriation within different camp zones, including informal privatisation of public space, linked to the spaces' morphology rather than ownership. Community preferences for upgrading strategies differed based on pocket types, with small-scale greening and place-making strategies favoured in informally privatised pockets to maintain privacy, while parks or playgrounds were preferred in mixed-use areas. The research found that the main challenge facing public space upgrades lies in the conflicting dual management structure between UNRWA and the local municipality, necessitating administrative strategies for long-term improvement. Community involvement and heritage preservation proved crucial for sustaining upgrades. While specific to Al Wehdat, the findings offer insights into creating community public spaces in refugee camps and informal settings, potentially benefiting other long-term refugee camps.
The maritime sector requires technically, environmentally, socially, and economically informed pathways to decarbonise and eliminate all emissions harmful to the environment and health. This is extremely challenging and complex, and a wide range of technologies and solutions are currently being explored. However, it is important to assess the state-of-the-art and identify further research and innovation required to accelerate decarbonisation. The UK National Clean Maritime Research Hub have identified key priority areas to drive this process, with particular focus on marine fuels, power and propulsion, vessel efficiency, port operations and infrastructure, digitalisation, finance, regulation, and policy.
The most dominant model of hope is cognitive, in which hope is defined as goal-directed thinking, comprising self-agency and goal route identification. Nonetheless, competing theories about the fundamental nature of hope remain and further exploration of the construct is warranted. Little is known about whether the cognitive model aligns with how higher education students themselves think about hope. Understanding how “lay” populations conceptualise and experience psychological phenomena is as important as applying scientific theory. Personal beliefs impact on how people make sense of their life experiences and on their wellbeing. Research is specifically needed to explore the conceptualisation and experience of hope within diverse student populations. A systematic review was conducted to identify published scientific research and grey literature presenting qualitative accounts of hope from higher education students. A qualitative meta-synthesis of the eight eligible reports was conducted using thematic analysis and synthesis approaches to identify conceptualisations of hope and its associations with mental health and well-being. Nine themes were identified, reflecting that hope is: fundamental; self-construal over time; goal-directed; cognitive-emotional-behavioural; connection; resilience; dynamic and reciprocal; the inverse of depression; positive. These findings were identified as reflecting conclusions in which at least a moderate level of confidence may be placed. These findings clearly align with the cognitive model of hope, but emphasise the additional facets of fundamentality, self-construal, and negative origins. The implications for higher education institutions include to promote growth mindsets, to support students to learn skills for identifying and pursuing goals, and to provide hope-enhancing interventions as part of their student support provision.
The nature of the relationship between sleep problems and dementia remains unclear. This study investigated the relationship between sleep measures and dementia in older adults (≥ 65) using data from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing (ELSA) and further investigated the causal association in Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis. In total of 7,223 individuals, 5.7% developed dementia (1.7% Alzheimer's disease (AD)) within an average of 8 (± 2.9) years. Cox regression models and MR were employed. Long sleep duration (>8h) was associated with 64% increased risk of incident dementia and 2-fold high risk of AD compared to ideal sleep duration (7-8h). This association was particularly evident in older-older adults (≥70 years) and those who consumed alcohol. Short sleep duration (<7h) was associated with lower risk of incident dementia among older-older but higher risk among younger-older adults. Sleep disturbances and perceived sleep quality were not associated with dementia or AD. The MR study did not reveal causal associations between sleep duration and dementia. These findings suggest that self-reported short sleep in younger-older and long sleep in older-older adults and those with frequent alcohol consumption are associated with dementia. Early detection of these sleep patterns may help identify individuals at higher dementia risk.
The neglected tropical disease (NTD) mycetoma is a chronic and progressively destructive infectious disease endemic in Sudan. There is a growing body of scientific research on mycetoma -causes, transmission, treatment, and impact from a clinical and biomedical perspective. However, there is further need for in-depth medical anthropology research on the disease to successfully translate biomedical advances into elimination and control programmes. Given this background the NIHR Global Health Research Unit on NTDs at Brighton and Sussex Medical School is leading multidisciplinary research on skin NTDs, including mycetoma, with a medical anthropology research component exploring how community engagement can lead to earlier presentation of mycetoma in Sudan. This protocol paper sets out the research aims and methods to generate new knowledge on mycetoma in Sudan once the political situation becomes stable and it is safe to carry out global health research once again. We continue to develop appropriate community engagement intervention strategies, while activities like training and capacity strengthening get underway remotely. In what follows we situate this study in the NIHR Research Unit on NTDs and alongside social science research on mycetoma. This study is part of the programme of research conducted by the NIHR Research Unit on NTDs at Brighton and Sussex Medical School (BSMS). Phase I of the Unit was conducted from 2018–2021. Below we detail key findings from Phase I that have informed our more recent work in Phase II (2021)(2022)(2023)(2024)(2025)(2026). It also sits alongside the Social Sciences for Severe Stigmatising Skin Conditions (5-S) Foundation also at BSMS (‘NIHR 5S Foundation -BSMS’ n.d., 5). The 5-S foundation examines the cultural, social, economic, and policy contexts of podoconiosis, mycetoma, and scabies in relation to the dynamics and dimensions of stigma. This study differs from the aims of the 5S Foundation in that it specifically focuses on the role community engagement can have in the early presentation and diagnosis of mycetoma in Sudan.
The new Deputy Editor of BJPsych International introduces articles in the current issue on topics as diverse as metacommunity psychiatry, child and adolescent mental health services in Australia and the Philippines, the mental health of the UK's Gypsy, Roma and Traveller populations, Indigenous mental health professionals in Bangladesh, and the relationship between spirituality and behavioural addictions.
The present paper introduces a numerical approach based on the level-set framework to simulate multiphase flow in the context of multiple emulsion formation. The present technique, designed for the flow of n-phases, is applicable for the production of multiphase emulsions and also for the modeling of two and three-dimensional systems. This method is utilized to simulate the formation of single, double, and triple emulsions in a microfluidic cross-junction. The accuracy of the findings is confirmed by conducting an investigation of a single emulsion at home, as well as by referencing experimental and numerical literature on multiple emulsions. Until recently, the prospect of a shift in the double droplet formation regime at a constant capillary ratio between phases had not been taken into account. The present study yielded a flow regime mapping diagram that exhibits a transition in the double droplet formation regime under a constant capillary number ratio between the inner and middle phases. Using a morphological diagram, our method takes into consideration the effect of varying values of interfacial tension between the phases on the formation of double droplets. A comparison of two-dimensional and three-dimensional modeling strategies for double emulsion is also conducted, with the aim of clarifying the dissimilar results obtained from these two techniques.
The products of intertidal and super tidal (splash zone) corrosion on steel piles have been characterised at 3 UK sites with contrasting environmental conditions in order to determine corrosion reaction mechanism and if a common mechanism for accelerated low water corrosion occurs across sites. Intertidal corrosion samples at Shoreham and Newhaven ports show an internal composition of iron mono- and bi-sulphide, with intermediate sulphur oxidation state compounds, and an outer surface dominated by iron oxides and oxyhydroxides with a component of iron sulphates. The FTIR spectra are characteristic of sulphate green rust. In contrast, samples from Southend have all sulphur species below detection levels and are dominated by iron oxides and oxyhydroxides. Carbon binding energy spectra are consistent with the development of biofilms at all sites except for a splash zone sample at Southend. The results demonstrate a common mechanism for ALWC at Newhaven and Shoreham, involving the action of sulphate-reducing bacteria generating iron sulphides on the steel surface. These are subsequently oxidised to produce sulphate green rust, which may in turn oxidise to produce lepidocrocite. At Southend differences in environment are inferred to restrict the activity of sulphate reducing bacteria, resulting in direct oxidation of steel to generate iron oxyhydroxide gels, which subsequently recrystallise, dehydrate and oxidise to goethite, magnetite and ultimately hematite in both splash zone and intertidal samples. The multi-technique approach used here characterises the full range of corrosion products.
The purpose of this study was to describe the acculturation of six British physical education (PE) preservice teachers (PSTs). The research questions we sought to answer were: (a) What were the PSTs’ values, beliefs, and perspectives regarding PE? and (b) What factors shaped the PSTs’ values, beliefs, and perspectives during their acculturation? We collected data with three types of formal interviewing and employed standard interpretive techniques to reduce the data to themes. Key findings were that the PSTs aspired to a career teaching secondary PE, possessed a balanced orientation to teaching curricular PE and coaching extracurricular sport, and espoused a mostly traditional multi-activity curriculum that was dominated by sport. The main attractors to a career in PE were the opportunity to maintain a connection with sport and working with youth. The key shaper of the PSTs’ perspectives was their apprenticeships of observation. These findings should aid sport pedagogy faculty in their efforts to produce stronger initial teacher education programs.
The skin mycobiota plays a significant role in infection risk, pathogen transmission, and personalized medicine approaches in intensive care settings. This prospective multicenter study aimed to enhance our understanding of intensive care units’ (ICUs’) Candida colonization dynamics, identify modifiable risk factors, and assess their impact on survival risk. Specimens were taken from 675, 203, and 110 patients at the admission (D1), 5th (D5), and 8th (D8) days of ICU stay, respectively. The patient’s demographic and clinical data were collected. Candida isolates were identified by conventional culture-based microbiology combined with molecular approaches. Overall, colonization was 184/675 (27.3%), 87/203 (42.8%), and 58/110 (52.7%) on D1, D5, and D8, respectively. Candida colonization dynamics were significantly associated with ICU type (odds ratio (OR) = 2.03, 95% CI 1.22–3.39, p = 0.007), respiratory infection (OR = 1.74, 95% CI 1.17–2.58, p = 0.006), hemodialysis (OR = 2.19, 95% CI 1.17–4.10, p = 0.014), COVID-19 (OR = 0.37, 95% CI 0.14–0.99, p = 0.048), and with a poor 3-month outcome (p = 0.008). Skin Candida spp. colonization can be an early warning tool to generate valuable insights into the epidemiology, risk factors, and survival rates of critically ill patients, and should be considered for epidemiological surveillance.
The strengthening of existing columns using additional reinforced concrete (RC) jackets is one of the most popular techniques for the enhancement of a column’s stiffness, load-bearing capacity and ductility. Important parameters affecting the effectiveness of this method are the strength of the additional concrete, concrete shrinkage and the connection between the old and the new concrete. In this study, the application of Ultra-High-Performance Fiber-Reinforced Concrete (UHPFRC) jackets for the structural upgrade of RC columns has been examined. Extensive numerical studies have been conducted to evaluate the effect of parameters such as the thickness of the jacket, concrete shrinkage and the addition of steel bars, and comparisons have been made with conventional RC jackets. The results of this study indicate that the use of UHPFRC can considerably improve the strength and the stiffness of existing reinforced concrete columns. The combination of UHPFRC and steel bars in the jacket leads to the most effective strengthening technique as a significant enhancement in the stiffness and the ultimate load capacity has been achieved.
The strengthening of existing columns using additional Reinforced Concrete (RC) jackets is one of the most popular techniques for the enhancement of column’s stiffness, load bearing capacity and ductility. Important parameters affecting the effectiveness of this method are the strength of the additional concrete, the concrete shrinkage and the connection between the old and the new con-crete. In this study the application of Ultra High Performance Fibre Reinforced Concrete (UHPFRC) jackets for the structural upgrade of RC columns has been examined. Extensive numerical study has been conducted to evaluate the effect of parameters such as the thickness of the jacket, the concrete shrinkage and the addition of steel bars and comparisons have been made with conventional RC jackets. The results of this study indicate that the use of UHPFRC can considerably im-prove the strength and the stiffness of existing RC columns. The combination of UHPFRC and steel bars in the jacket leads to the most effective strengthening technique as a significant enhancement of the stiffness and the ultimate load capacity has been achieved.
The type and nature of refractive surgery procedures has greatly increased over the past few decades, allowing for almost all patient populations to be treated to extremely high satisfaction. Conventional photorefractive keratectomy involves the removal of the corneal epithelium through mechanical debridement or dilute alcohol instillation. An improvement to this method utilises laser epithelial removal in a single-step process termed transepithelial photorefractive keratectomy (transPRK). We explore the history of transPRK from its early adoption as a two-step process, identify different transPRK platforms from major manufacturers, and describe the role of transPRK in the refractive surgery armamentarium. This is a narrative review of the literature. This review finds that TransPRK is a safe and effective procedure that works across a variety of patient populations. Though often not seen as a primary treatment option when compared to other corneal-based procedures that offer a faster and more comfortable recovery, there are many scenarios in which these procedures are not possible. These include, but are not limited to, cases of corneal instability, previous refractive surgery, or transplant where higher-order aberrations can impair vision in a manner not amenable to spectacle or contact lens correction. We discuss refinements to the procedure that would help improve outcomes, including optimising patient discomfort after surgery as well as reducing corneal haze and refractive regression.
The UK owns the oldest dwellings in Europe. Most of them have special historic and/or architectural value but low energy performance and are responsible for high operational carbon emissions. Energy retrofit of this part of the stock is much needed but problematic, due to the risks associated with altering their complex thermo-hygrometric behavior and their heritage features, which limit the range of suitable interventions. This study aimed to propose a range of suitable energy retrofit measures for Traditional Listed Dwellings (TLDs) in the South-East of England. It used representative case studies, selected in the city of Brighton and Hove, and devised a mixed-methods approach to model their energy performance and carbon emissions, before and after the application of interventions; the results obtained from dynamic energy simulation were assessed by means of parametric and sensitivity analysis. Providing an overview of the methodology adopted in the study, this paper presents the results of its first stage, aimed at addressing low-risk interventions. The discussion shows that the range of energy and carbon savings potential of the investigated measures is strictly intertwined with the range of baseline conditions of the dwellings investigated; the simulation of the retrofit interventions - individually and combined - highlighted the major effectiveness of draught-proofing amongst the low-risk retrofit measures for this part of the stock. The main novelty of this paper lays in the rigorous, layered, and systemic approach taken to assess low-risk energy retrofit solutions for TLDs by applying and testing them on multiple representative case studies.
The use of a second informant (co-respondent) is a common method of identifying potential bias in outcome data (e.g., parent-report child outcomes). There is, however, limited evidence regarding methods of increasing response rates from co-respondents. The use of financial incentives is associated with higher levels of engagement and follow-up data collection in online surveys. This study investigated whether financial incentives paid to index participants in an online trial of a parenting-focused intervention, would lead to higher levels of co-respondent data collection. A study within a trial (SWAT) using a parallel group RCT design. Participants in the host study (an RCT of an online intervention) were randomised into one of two SWAT arms: received/did not receive a £15 voucher when referred co-respondent completed baseline measures. Primary outcome was completion (No/Yes) of Spence Children's Anxiety Scale (SCAS or SCAS-Pre) at baseline. Additional analysis explored impact of incentives on data quality. Intention to treat analysis of 899 parents (183 co-respondents) in the no-incentive arm, and 911 parents (199 co-respondents) in incentive arm. Nomination of co-respondents was similar between incentive arms. The RR for the incentive arm compared to the no incentive arm was 1.13 (95% CI: 0.91 to 1.41, p = 0.264) indicating that incentives did not impact completion of outcomes by consented co-respondents. There were no indications of different data quality between arms. The finding that payment of financial incentives to index participant does not lead to greater levels of co-respondent outcome completion suggests that careful consideration should be made before allocating resources in this way in future trials. The host study was registered at Study Record | ClinicalTrials.gov and the SWAT study was registered in the SWAT Store | The Northern Ireland Network for Trials Methodology Research (qub.ac.uk): SWAT number 143: Filetoupload,1099612,en.pdf (qub.ac.uk).
The use of generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) in academia is a subjective and hotly debated topic. Currently, there are no agreed guidelines towards the usage of GenAI systems in higher education (HE) and, thus, it is still unclear how to make effective use of the technology for teaching and learning practice. This paper provides an overview of the current state of research on GenAI for teaching and learning in HE. To this end, this study conducted a systematic review of relevant studies indexed by Scopus, using the preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. The search criteria revealed a total of 625 research papers, of which 355 met the final inclusion criteria. The findings from the review showed the current state and the future trends in documents, citations, document sources/authors, keywords, and co-authorship. The research gaps identified suggest that while some authors have looked at understanding the detection of AI-generated text, it may be beneficial to understand how GenAI can be incorporated into supporting the educational curriculum for assessments, teaching, and learning delivery. Furthermore, there is a need for additional interdisciplinary, multidimensional studies in HE through collaboration. This will strengthen the awareness and understanding of students, tutors, and other stakeholders, which will be instrumental in formulating guidelines, frameworks, and policies for GenAI usage.
The use of Remote Consultations (RCs) in primary care expanded rapidly during the Covid-19 pandemic: their ongoing use highlights a need to improve experiences of them. We interviewed 17 adults in the UK, including a sub-sample of five people with a First Language other than English (FLotE). Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis identified five major themes: (1) RCs are convenient, but they require appropriate technology and appropriate conditions of use; (2) even those with good general eHealth literacy and connectivity may struggle with systems that are not user-friendly; (3) greater reliance on verbal communication was experience as limiting empathy, and also made RCs more difficult for people with a FLotE; (4) RCs are considered inappropriate for complex conditions, or those with major psychological components; (5) continuity of care is important, but is often lacking. Overall, interviewees emphasised the need for more user-friendly processes, and greater attention to patients’ preferences for consultation type.
The use of Ultra-High Performance Fiber Reinforced Concrete (UHPFRC) for strengthening applications is gaining increasing attention due to its advantageous mechanical and durability characteristics. However, the lack of design guidelines and code recommendations hinders the extensive use of UHPFRC in strengthening applications. The aim of the present study is to offer valuable insights regarding the effect of critical parameters on the performance of UHPFRC as a strengthening material. In this current research, experimental and numerical results have been used to evaluate the effectiveness of UHPFRC layers for the structural upgrade of existing Reinforced Concrete (RC) beams. Critical parameters such as the thickness of the additional layers, the connection at the old-to-new concrete interface, the mechanical performance of UHPFRC, and the amount of additional longitudinal reinforcement have been studied, and recommendations for the effective design of the strengthened elements, considering both performance and cost, are presented. The results of the present study indicate that the addition of steel bars with different diameters in the layer increased the load-carrying capacity by up to 183%. On the contrary, an increase of 5.8% in the load-carrying capacity was achieved when the RC beams had 30 mm layers, and an 18.1% increment was achieved for layers with a higher thickness of 70 mm. The assumption of perfect connection at the interface, which can be achieved with dowels at the interface, resulted in further enhancement of the load carrying capacity, which was found to be equal to 11.8% for the 30 mm layer and 35.3% for the 70 mm layer. An increment of the UHPFRC tensile strength of the strengthening layer from 11.5 MPa to 14 MPa resulted in a further increment of the load-carrying capacity by 8%.
The WHO African region bears a disproportionate burden of morbidity and mortality related to chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection and accounts for an estimated 70% of new HBV infections worldwide. We investigated the extent to which HBV clinical trials represented populations in this region by searching the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov for interventional clinical trials published in English between database inception and May 29, 2023, using the search term "Hepatitis B". We identified 1804 unique clinical trials, of which 18 (1·0%) recorded involvement of the WHO African region. There is no evidence that the number of HBV clinical trials in this region has improved over time. The diversity of new interventions and industry sponsorship in the WHO African region were low, with trials of HBV comparing poorly with those of other endemic infectious diseases (eg, malaria, HIV, and SARS-CoV-2). HBV research and clinical trial investigations have neglected the WHO African region, leading to profound health inequities. HBV clinical trials are urgently needed to evaluate the efficacy of newly discovered therapeutics and to ensure that interventions can be equitably distributed and deployed as they become available. The WHO African region bears a disproportionate burden of morbidity and mortality related to chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection and accounts for an estimated 70% of new HBV infections worldwide. We investigated the extent to which HBV clinical trials represented populations in this region by searching the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov for interventional clinical trials published in English between database inception and May 29, 2023, using the search term "Hepatitis B". We identified 1804 unique clinical trials, of which 18 (1·0%) recorded involvement of the WHO African region. There is no evidence that the number of HBV clinical trials in this region has improved over time. The diversity of new interventions and industry sponsorship in the WHO African region were low, with trials of HBV comparing poorly with those of other endemic infectious diseases (eg, malaria, HIV, and SARS-CoV-2). HBV research and clinical trial investigations have neglected the WHO African region, leading to profound health inequities. HBV clinical trials are urgently needed to evaluate the efficacy of newly discovered therapeutics and to ensure that interventions can be equitably distributed and deployed as they become available.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) has set targets for the elimination of Hepatitis B virus (HBV), which include preventing new infections and reducing deaths. We explored beliefs, behaviours and barriers to diagnosis, prevention and treatment for people living with HBV infection (PLWHB) and those with liver disease in a rural South African population in KwaZulu-Natal, to gather information to inform research and support the development of improved clinical and public health services. Using an interdisciplinary approach (combining public engagement, social science, clinical and laboratory team members) we conducted a community dialogue with members of the Africa Health Research Institute (AHRI) Community Advisory Board (CAB). Notes from the discussions were used to write up an account from which themes were identified during a team debrief session for data analysis. There was a lack of knowledge and awareness of HBV infection and transmission and prevention amongst CAB members, also reported among community members and healthcare workers. The participants recognised liver disease symptoms. Perceived causes of liver disease reported by the CAB were alcohol and non-adherence to HIV treatment. Barriers to care included stigma, poverty, and delays in referrals for HBV diagnosis and management. Understanding barriers to care is important to shape future services for diagnosis, treatment and prevention of HBV and liver disease which are accessible, affordable and acceptable to the local population. Education, awareness and advocacy for improved liver health care pathways are required to make them effective for local communities.
The world health organisation (WHO) revealed approximately 280 million people in the world suffer from depression. Yet, existing studies on early-stage depression detection using machine learning (ML) techniques are limited. Prior studies have applied a single stand-alone algorithm which are unable to deal with data complexities, prone to overfitting and limited in generalisation. To this end, our paper examined the performance of several ML algorithms for early-stage depression detection using two benchmark social media datasets (D1 and D2). More specifically, we incorporated sentiment indicator to improve our model performance. Our experimental results showed that sentence bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (SBERT) numerical vectors fitted into stacking ensemble model achieved comparable F1 scores of 69% in dataset (D1) and 76% in dataset (D2). Our findings suggest that utilising sentiment indicators as additional feature for depression detection yields an improved model performance and thus, we recommend the development of depressive term corpus for future work.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) revealed approximately 280 million people in the world suffer from depression. Yet, existing studies on early-stage depression detection using machine learning (ML) techniques are limited. Prior studies have applied a single stand-alone algorithm, which is unable to deal with data complexities, prone to overfitting, and limited in generalization. To this end, our paper examined the performance of several ML algorithms for early-stage depression detection using two benchmark social media datasets (D1 and D2). More specifically, we incorporated sentiment indicators to improve our model performance. Our experimental results showed that sentence bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (SBERT) numerical vectors fitted into the stacking ensemble model achieved comparable F1 scores of 69% in the dataset (D1) and 76% in the dataset (D2). Our findings suggest that utilizing sentiment indicators as an additional feature for depression detection yields an improved model performance, and thus, we recommend the development of a depressive term corpus for future work.
There is a scarcity of audiological training programs in low-and middle-income settings. We aimed to co-develop an audiology training program combining on-site and tele-education at two locations: a charity hospital in Cambodia and a government hospital in Bangladesh. A novel program was designed to train local staff in pure tone audiometry which forms the basis of hearing assessment in adults. Prior to training, there were no in-house audiology services for patients. A combined short bespoke in-country training program, followed by ongoing support through remote live education enabled an audiometry set up. The model also consisted of continuing quality assurance during audiological assessments via an internet platform. The programs have allowed for successful training of seven local health care workers in Cambodia and two in Bangladesh, providing accurate hearing testing of adult patients, with associated streamlining of patient referral pathways. Trainee performance in both contexts has been positive. In Cambodia, trainees exhibit highly proficient audiological skills and assess over 1000 patients annually. In Bangladesh, trainees have gained competency in hearing screening. On-site training followed by remote support allowed for a low-cost model for audiological training. Critical to success was the motivation, trust and engagement of local staff, availability of equipment, and flexibility in teaching style. The program has proven a model of training health care workers in hearing assessments. An additional outcome of this cross-cultural collaboration has been the internationalisation of higher education at home.
There is an over-reliance on structured risk assessments and restrictive practices for managing self-harm and suicidality in inpatient mental health and emergency department settings, despite a lack of supporting evidence. Alternative relational care approaches prioritising interpersonal relationships are needed. We present a definition of relational care, co-produced with academic and lived experience researchers and clinicians, and conducted a scoping review, following PRISMA guidelines. We aimed to examine quantitative evidence for the impact of relational care in non-forensic inpatient mental health and ED settings on self-harm and suicide. We identified 29 relevant reviews, covering 62 relational care approaches, reported in 87 primary papers. Evidence suggests some individual-, group-, ward- and organisation-level relational care approaches can reduce self-harm and suicide in inpatient mental health and emergency department settings, although there is a lack of high-quality research overall. Further co-produced research is needed to clarify the meaning of relational care, its core components, and develop a clear framework for its application and evaluation. Further high-quality research is needed evaluating its effectiveness, how it is experienced by patients, carers, and staff, and exploring what works best for whom, under what circumstances, and why.
This article asks whether Adriana Cavarero's invocation of the Christian Madonna to inspire a pacifist feminist ethics could help counter the ever-strengthening alliance between Conservative Christianity and the radical right which I refer to as "Macho Christianity." To flesh out Cavarero's undeveloped invocation of the Madonna's love as "non-stereotypical" I turn to queer and non-dominant indigenous Mariologies to provide a novel reading that demonstrates, against the dominant exegetical tradition, the radical absence of normative Man at the heart of the Christian story. This indicates that for too long the normative Man of patriarchy has held Christianity hostage, limiting and contorting its message. In response, I use these alternative Mariologies to develop Cavarero's "non-stereotypical" love via a novel interpretation of the Christian love of enemies as a nonviolent, militant, performative political practice of interruption, from which less dominatory ways of relating to one another could emerge.
This article brings ‘Small is Beautiful’ into dialogue with Frankfurt School critical theory to explore reshaping capitalism considering the climate crisis. Nature’s subjugation to capitalist instrumental reason is discussed in terms of Schumacher’s arguments. The article contends that market-based emission reduction schemes privatise Earth’s life-sustaining capacity and underscores how current lifestyles depend on growth whilst commodifying environmental concerns. Capitalism, it is argued, relies on producing a continued demand for new products, requiring continued growth to sustain the ‘treadmill of production’. Technology disrupts markets but not capitalism, further serving accumulation. Economic democracy, as in Schumacher’s argument, is proposed as a solution which redirects economic activity by combining the worker/producer duality of the individual but notes the challenge of changing the growth-based status quo on which we rely despite the existential threat it presents.
This article brings climate communication approaches to transformational climate learning by critically evaluating an experimental climate communication retreat that brought 20 young adults from across Europe together in Austria to co-create climate communications as a constitutive dimension of climate action. Structured around the transformational principles of interdisciplinarity, multidimensionality, collaborative project-based learning, reflexivity and action-oriented, the retreat specifically focused upon the creative co-production, between peers, of climate communication as communicative meaning-making and action. The retreat experience transformed young people's sociocultural understandings of climate change, and climate communication as meaning-making and action, and increased their self and group efficacy. The key factors contributing to these transformations were: the forging of collective identity, peer-to-peer learning, emotional sharing, reflexive spaces, inspiring learning environment, interdisciplinary learning, multidimensional experiences, and collaborative project-based communications. Situating co-created climate communication within transformational learning can help facilitate collective experiences beyond direct climate action participation, helping create education for social change.
This article discusses a series of interviews with migrants from the North of Ireland to Britain during the Troubles (1969–1998) to explore how they narrate their experiences of movement and settlement by talking about voice and accent. Drawing specifically on two interviews—one with someone who felt her accent caused her to be seen as illiberal and uncivilized, and another who felt he could use his accent situationally and actively, sometimes to his advantage—we argue that accent is a site where interviewees can describe aspects of their memories of migration. Additionally, we argue that existing sociological work on voice, accent, and Irishness in Britain provides useful conceptual framing for this kind of research, but that an oral history methodology makes a more nuanced understanding of accent possible, both in terms of its relationship to individual life trajectories and in terms of the specific histories it relates to (in this instance, the history of the war in both Ireland and Britain).
This article explores the value of a mobilities lens in studying the nexus of water and heritage, specifically within the context of post-industrial rivers and the many regenerative and degenerative processes shaping them today. The River Lea (East London) showcases the complex, often conflicting, water-heritage dynamics that manifest across post-industrial riverscapes: efforts to (re)connect communities to rivers and their heritage become entangled with the (pollutive) imprints of industry. Using examples from the River Lea, the article highlights how a mobilities lens, currently underused in water-heritage studies, draws attention to (i) physical accessibility provisions surrounding rivers, (ii) (in)visible streams of fluid materials and (iii) the movements and moorings of more-than-human entities. These human, ecological and more-than-human mobilities can support but also sabotage efforts to regenerate post-industrial rivers, rendering a mobilities lens, with its ability to value and make visible multiple mobilities, indispensable to studying post-industrial rivers as key water-heritage sites.
This article makes the case for the value of qualitative methods in advancing our understanding of human-animal relations and multispecies relations in psychology, introducing the first special issue of a journal dedicated to qualitative psychology and the field of human-animal studies. It offers a thematic summary of the articles organized into four sections. Each section includes a reflection on the methods adopted in the context of broader developments in human-animal studies. To do so, Gorman's conceptualisation of mutualistic, parasitic, mutualist and commensal relations is utilised, as a basis for deciding whether the methods adopted allow us to consider 'who benefits and how' from the human-animal and multispecies relationships scrutinised in this issue. Particularly in showcasing qualitative methods that centre the experience and agency of animals where they have traditionally been discounted, it is concluded that this special issue constitutes a significant moment in the development of psychology as a discipline.
This article outlines and considers the emergence of (fine art) Experimental Studies at Brighton Polytechnic in 1971, as part of the art school modernisations after the Coldstream Report of 1960. Research, to date, suggests this was the first and maybe the longest-running experimental fine art media course in the UK. The photographic works of artists John Hilliard and Roger Cutforth are discussed as they taught the early years of the course, and Roger Cutforth's work The Non-Art Project (1970–1971), an offsite project and small black and white photobook gives this article its title. The term non-art, as a category in art history is explored along with Information (Kynaston McShine, MOMA 1970), and both are suggested as an important underpinning for the emergence of Experimental Studies, which became Fine Art Critical Practice (FACP) and was run out to form a general fine art course 2020–2022. The end of the paper looks at a particular FACP student degree show from 2015 which resembles some noteworthy curatorial work of Roger Cutforth from 1971. This visual coincidence is taken as a marker – not of deliberate reference, but of a tradition that can still be used with agency and aesthetic purpose by later generations.
This article proposes an innovative analytical framework for understanding memory work in oral history interviews with migrants who experienced the Troubles in Northern Ireland before migrating to Britain. Integrating theories of diasporic subjectivity from migration studies with conceptual developments in oral history and current research on memory, temporality and the history of emotions, it focuses on transnational dynamics in 'travelling memories' of the Troubles brought to Britain by first-generation migrants; the long temporal 'afterlife of feelings' attached to conflict memories; and the process of 'associative diffraction' whereby chronologically sequential memories are interrupted, fragmented and recombined in achronological sequences linking diverse temporal moments and spatial locations. The utility of these concepts is explored in an intensive analysis of memory dynamics and subjectivity in a single interview, with Siobhán O'Neill, who grew up Catholic, working-class and queer in nationalist/republican West Belfast at the epicentre of conflict violence, and moved to London in 1986. The article argues that the specificities of individual migration stories such as Siobhán's resist conventional generalisation, and offers a new theoretical and methodological framework for the systematic investigation of quotidian experiences, memories and silences that are unexplored in the established historiographies of the Troubles and the Irish diaspora in Britain.
This article reports the impact of teachers undertaking practitioner enquiry projects as part of their professional development. This was a longitudinal study situated across five different schools. In considering the impact of teachers undertaking enquiry projects within their own schools, we offer both a framework in terms of a research orientation/impact grid to identify the characteristics of successful projects and an interpretation of why some participants were successful, whereas others were less successful with their projects. The article considers factors faced by teacher-enquirers that may either support or militate against the success of their enquiries. We point to teacher enquiry projects having most impact when (1) the participating teachers carefully problematised the enquiry they wished to undertake, (2) agency, engagement and reflexivity are high thus resulting in double loop learning and (3) where the school has a trusting and supportive culture. This points to an increase in participant professional knowledge and enhancement of practice.
This article seeks to open a dialogue on encouraging creative possibility in architectural education, with particular focus on the architecture studio.Although discussed through the practice of design, I present experimental methods that are adaptable across creative and speculative disciplines.Rooted in the conceptual difference between possible and probable thinking as identified by philosophers Didier Debaise and Isabelle Stengers, this article positions the role of the architect as being interstitially located in multiple temporalities (as well as occupying the liminal space between the real and the imagined) in such a way that this difference between possible and probable is seen to be potentially critical to the future of the built environment.Focusing on non-linear time (investigated through temporal mapping), situating the imagined architecture in the dynamic conditions of site (site studies/ development of architecture), and through the introduction of an interloper (chance/ event), this article acts as a framework for examining potential methods for nurturing and sustaining possibility in the space of the architecture studio.
This comprehensive review explores the correlation between emotional intelligence (EI) and academic achievement in the context of UK secondary schools. Grounded in a thorough examination of emotional intelligence, its theoretical foundations, and influencing factors during adolescence, the analysis synthesizes existing studies to establish a robust link between EI and academic success. The impact of school culture, teacher-student relationships, and familial influences on emotional intelligence is explored, emphasizing the pivotal role of the school environment in shaping socio-emotional growth. Empirical evidence highlights the mediating role of EI in the complex interplay of socio-emotional factors and academic achievement. Practical implications include targeted educational strategies to enhance emotional intelligence, recognizing its potential to positively influence various academic outcomes. The exploration concludes by emphasizing the significance of recognizing and prioritizing emotional intelligence in fostering holistic educational approaches for secondary school students in the UK.
This interdisciplinary research project explores the symbiotic relationship between architecture and cinema through the application of Virtual Reality (VR) technology. Focusing on the iconic film The Cabinet of Dr Caligari (1920) by Robert Wiene, renowned for its pioneering narrative and architecturally innovative film sets, the study employs VR to digitally reconstruct these lost film sets. By leveraging archival drawings and meticulous data acquisition, the project's iterative design process models the sets to near-physical accuracy. The resulting VR simulation offers a unique opportunity for scholars, architects, and film enthusiasts to immerse themselves in the expressionist era's spatial and atmospheric environments. Additionally, it advocates for the use of VR as a tool for the preservation and restoration of cultural heritage within the realm of film and architecture. The case study's significance lies in its contribution to the preservation of film culture and the architectural legacy of Expressionism.
This manuscript describes the Advanced Breast Cancer (ABC) international consensus guidelines updated at the last two ABC international consensus conferences (ABC 6 in 2021, virtual, and ABC 7 in 2023, in Lisbon, Portugal), organized by the ABC Global Alliance. It provides the main recommendations on how to best manage patients with advanced breast cancer (inoperable locally advanced or metastatic), of all breast cancer subtypes, as well as palliative and supportive care. These guidelines are based on available evidence or on expert opinion when a higher level of evidence is lacking. Each guideline is accompanied by the level of evidence (LoE), grade of recommendation (GoR) and percentage of consensus reached at the consensus conferences. Updated diagnostic and treatment algorithms are also provided. The guidelines represent the best management options for patients living with ABC globally, assuming accessibility to all available therapies. Their adaptation (i.e. resource-stratified guidelines) is often needed in settings where access to care is limited.
This mobile autoethnography reveals the spectacular and the mundane in gendered im/mobilities. It considers generational stories of death and near death to apparently mundane mobilities to state-induced immobilisations and present day imagined mobilities of motherhood. Stories are uncovered and analysed using mobile autoethnography, which in tandem is scrutinized in relation to autobiography. I set my own present-day story of gendered im/mobilities in conversation with the stories of my parents, grandparents, great-grand-parents and current generations, including my children, spanning the last one hundred years in Northern Ireland and England. The paper argues that the celebration of certain stories across generations is gendered in a way that intersects with other social characteristics and this is bound up with time. Biographies are connected to the wider socio-cultural and political mobility landscapes that structured mobile lives. The often re-storied narratives of the spectacular contrast with the less known and more hidden stories, the micro-mobilities of the mundane. The paper draws out the importance of autoethnographic storying in revealing the ways in which micro-mobilities connect to broader transnational and global im/mobilities and to mobilities of the future.
This paper concisely overviews the urgent and pressing causes of water pollution in Bangladesh's dyeing and printing industries.The study area, Narayangonj, the central industrial hub of Bangladesh where the textile industry is predominant, has been chosen due to the severity of the issue.Local inhabitants of this area are highly affected by textile pollution, necessitating immediate action.The solution, derived from a comprehensive investigation of literature reviews and primary data surveys, offers a unique and innovative approach to the problem.This solution, which is at the forefront of environmental research, promises to revolutionize how we tackle water pollution in the textile industry, sparking intrigue and engagement among our readers.The research methodology is constructed here to identify the core factors responsible for pollution.It also enlightened me on examining the role of international standards and local government intervention in combating water pollution by the dyeing and printing industries.There are two groups of factories randomly chosen to identify and compare their behavior in establishing and operating ETP and the practice of testing dyeing effluents by the factory authorities before discharge.Secondly, this paper analyzed the samples of two groups of factories to identify whether any significant differences existed between them.After analyzing all the results, some recommendations were made for later discussion that focus on the incorporation of ISO certificates by the factory owners and government intervention.
This paper explores my practice-based research project Arboreal Encounters, a collection of tannin toned cyanotypes made with six heritage oak trees that form an element of my part-time, practice-based Ph.D. at the University of Brighton, UK. It comprises a brief history and background of the project before exploring how photographic practice might interact with and integrate notions of vegetal intelligence within artistic practice. By thinking of the production of Arboreal Encounters as if an invitation to the trees to become part of the process of their own representation, I consider how such interactions might act symbolically as human-plant collaborations and how methods of thinking, as well as doing, may resist notions of the plant as commodity within artistic practice.
This paper focuses on Honig’s critical reworking of the concept of inclination and her concept of “slow regicide”. With “slow regicide” Honig describes a performative critique of the violence of the patriarchal order. However, what Honig underestimates, I argue, is that this intervention must itself be non-violent if it is not to reinstate patriarchal violence. My suggestion is that paying closer attention to the performativity of inclination shows how “slow regicide” enables a non-violent refusal in which the normativity of patriarchy is frustrated and fails.
This paper offers a critical reflection upon the reimagining of environmental and climate communication as a discipline of care, through the practices of creative and collaborative climate communication. Drawing upon my experiences of working on creative climate communication projects with young people in the UK and Europe, I explore how collaborative practice can foreground care as a constitutive dimension of our discipline(s) through its focus upon relationality, interconnectedness, and collectivity. A focus upon care as an ethic of enquiry and mode of practice can also reorient the constitutive purpose of our discipline(s), helping us to productively question the individual and collective work we do, how we undertake this work and with whom, and whose voices and perspectives we seek and thus prioritize.
This paper scrutinizes the dynamic cross-interaction of two adjacent rocking objects standing on coupled or conjoined bases. Equations governing the motion of the coupled system are derived in non-dimensional form. Experimental results are used to validate the model adopted, including cases with the blocks located on bases that are coupled with either a flexible or rigid connection. The significance of dynamic cross-interaction on rocking behaviour is explored through a numerical parametric study using the proposed model. The results indicate dynamic cross-interaction between two rocking blocks will have a significant effect on their rocking behaviour. It was observed that when the bases of two blocks are coupled there will generally be a transfer of dynamic energy, resulting in the rocking amplitude of one block increasing and the rocking amplitude of the other block decreasing. Specific characteristics that resulted in the rocking amplitude of one of the blocks increasing included: smaller size, increased slenderness and larger mass.
This research examined the amount of media attention to homelessness in 11 UK newspapers with two main research questions: (1) Does the media coverage exhibit seasonal cyclical patterns in their attention to homelessness? (2) Do England's nine regions differ in the attention they receive after adjusting for their relative homelessness levels? Time series of all 4105 news reports with the keyword "homeless*" in their headline between 2001 and 2020 were tested for meteorological and monthly seasonal effects, revealing significantly greater attention in winter but decreased coverage in spring and summer. Contrary to expectation, further analysis suggested that the increased winter coverage was not related to the colder months but to the Christmas period. Regarding regional differences, London received the highest mentions in the news but after adjusting for the relative burden of homelessness, the North West emerged as receiving the most relative coverage. The East Midlands and East of England had the lowest adjusted attention scores. As suggested by the public arenas model, the findings of this research suggest that media focus on social problems like homelessness be culturally patterned with key events like Christmas shaping issue-prominence. Similarly, regional imbalances in attention may reflect a systemic bias in news reporting.
This special edition of The Clinical Teacher set out to generate discussion about how health professional educators, educational researchers, clinicians and students are preparing for practice in new governance and clinical practice environments driven by integrated care (IC) frameworks. We started from the position that IC is a whole-system framework for healthcare provision encompassing community, primary, secondary and tertiary levels of health and social care service delivery. We wanted to explore how new service delivery models driven by IC are generating a need to educate and prepare new and existing health professionals for practice in more integrated and interprofessional team environments. We also wanted to understand how established team roles and responsibilities are changing alongside changing professional competencies as a result of increasingly integrated working in healthcare across the globe. We were surprised to discover the variations in interpretation of IC by contributors to this special edition. Many submissions we received did not address IC explicitly or implicitly and sadly could not be considered for the special edition. Those submissions that did articulate IC in the context of clinical education often focused on a specific element or ingredient of IC (e.g. telehealth) rather than a more holistic exploration of how educational practice is evolving in response to whole-system IC-driven changes. This has led us to reflect that the conceptualisation of IC across our health settings remains highly complex and that responses by health professional educators are impacted by a range of drivers including system-specific governance arrangements and the pace at which change happens. In earlier work, Miller and Stein1 and Calciolari et al.2 allude to the complexity of IC and report on a conceptual framework and set of dimensions to encompass the breadth of IC. These dimensions provide a useful template for identifying the priority areas of concern for health professional educators navigating within emergent IC practice contexts (see Table 1). The unexpected and universal changes imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic provide a secondary lens to examine how educators changed practice in ways that may have intentionally or unintentionally led them towards more integrated models of care delivery. The papers submitted to and selected for this special edition report on work being done across a range of the dimensions detailed in Table 1, by colleagues from diverse backgrounds in health and social care. Contributions focused more on micro- and meso-dimensions of IC such as education of health professionals to be more committed to person-centred care and approaches to improve team-based communication and cohesion to promote professional integration. There remains limited attention on the macro-dimensions of IC such as organisational and systemic processes. There also appears to be limited critical reflection or exploration of the evolution of IC on health professionals' practice and the evolving educational requirements, pedagogical approaches and theoretical underpinnings that may be necessary if we are to embrace a more comprehensive and global uptake of IC. We hope that this special edition will generate debate on the theoretical, practical, clinical and technical challenges that we all face as educators as we respond to and hopefully contribute to more integrated whole of system approaches for better health and social care for all. Monica Moran: Writing—original draft. Duncan Shrewsbury: Writing—review and editing. The authors have no acknowledgement to disclose. The authors declare that they have no conflicts of interest. No ethical approval required for this editorial piece.
This study aimed to evaluate the effect of discrete passages of play on locomotor demands of international men’s and women’s rugby sevens matches and their relationship with winning or losing. Thirteen men’s and thirteen women’s international rugby sevens players wore 10 Hz Global Positioning Systems during twelve Tokyo Olympic games matches (966 observations; 507 for men, 459 for women). Discrete ball-in-play periods were categorised as: ‘Single-phase defence’, ‘single-phase attack’, ‘multi-phase defence’, ‘multi-phase attack’, ‘multi-phase defence to attack’, or ‘multi-phase attack to defence’. Relative total distance, alongside high-speed (&gt;5.0 m∙s -1 ), acceleration (&gt;3 m∙s -2 ), and deceleration (&gt;3 m∙s -2 ) distances were recorded for each passage. Separately for men and women, linear mixed models examined the effect of passage type and match outcome (win or loss) on locomotor demands, whilst controlling for opposition ranking. In men, relative total distance ranged from 137 m∙min -1 to 174 m∙min -1 for ‘multi-phase defence to attack’ and ‘multi-phase attack’, respectively. In women, ‘multi-phase attack’ elicited the lowest relative total distance (118 m∙min -1 ), whereas the greatest values (186 m∙min -1 ) were recorded for ‘single-phase defence’. For men, there were significant interactions between match outcome and passage type for relative total (p&lt;0.001) and high-speed (p = 0.006) distance. During ‘multi-phase attack’, relative total distance was greater for wins versus losses (174 vs 138 m.min -1 , p = 0.024). However, for ‘single-phase defence’, relative total distance was lower for wins (128 vs 164 m.min -1 , p&lt;0.001). For women, there were significant interactions between match outcome and passage type for relative total (p = 0.036), high-speed (p = 0.003), and deceleration (p = 0.015) distances. Locomotor responses were influenced by passage type and match result for men and women. Knowing the demands of each passage type may inform training drills targeted at developing match-play-specific physical, technical, and tactical adaptations. Understanding how passages differ between matches won and lost could also inform team technical/tactical preparation including selection.
This study focuses on the importance of having a safe space, brave space and a facilitated space in student-staff partnerships. The importance of having a facilitated space of drop-ins and workshops supporting students pastorally was investigated as part of an initiative called the Inclusive Practice Partnerships (IPP) Scheme, drawing on compassionate pedagogies. Healey et al.'s partnership framework is used as a conceptual lens to inform analysis. Semi-structured in-depth interviews were conducted with students and staff to investigate their experiences of attending facilitated drop-in and workshop sessions and how this enhanced their overall experience of partnership. Thematic cross-sectional content analysis of the interview data was conducted adopting pre and open coding. Findings highlight the importance of wellbeing support, sharing experiences, building resilience and providing personal development opportunities. Discussion and recommendations from the findings are shared to inform practitioners seeking to develop support for students working in partnership in colleges and universities in national and international contexts.
This study investigated the spatio-temporal variability of microplastics (MPs) in the sediments of the River Thames (UK) catchment over 30 months (July 2019 - Dec 2021). The average MP concentration was 61 items kg
Three approaches to modelling the heating and evaporation of monocomponent droplets are compared. Firstly, the heat rate supplied to the droplets to raise their internal energy is calculated based on the observation that steady-state equations for heat and mass balance in the gas phase should lead to the same droplet evaporation rates. The direct calculation of the above-mentioned heat rate is used in the second approach; the value of this rate is then used for the estimation of the droplet evaporation rate using the Spalding heat transfer number. In the third approach, the same algorithm as in the second approach is used to calculate the heat rate but the mass evaporation rate in this approach is inferred from the coupled solution to the momentum, mass and energy conservation equations in the gas phase; the gas mixture density in this approach depends on temperature. The predictions of the numerical algorithms for these approaches are compared with experimentally observed time dependencies of the rates of change of radii and average temperatures of n-decane droplets at initial temperatures and radii equal to 300 K and 0.85 mm, respectively, placed in a gas at temperatures 500 K and 760 K. It is shown that the algorithm for the third approach predicts values which are close to the experimental data.
To assess student nurses understanding and skills in the application of antimicrobial stewardship knowledge to practice.
To explore whether and how eHealth solutions support the dignity of healthcare professionals and patients in palliative care contexts.
Tolerance is mainly presented as an improvement upon discrimination, but research shows that it also can have a negative psychological impact on some minorities.Yet, there is no research into the meanings that minority individuals and trans people in particular append to tolerance.Whether being tolerated is experienced as helpful or hurtful would be an important consideration for public policies promoting tolerance.We interviewed thirteen trans and nonbinary people in the Netherlands, investigating subjective interpretations of being tolerated, the identity threats posed by tolerance, and how targets coped with these.We identified three main themes using thematic analysis: a) tolerance as perpetuating inequality; b) tolerators' misunderstandings of trans identity and experience; and c) dilemmas of coping with being tolerated.Most respondents saw tolerance as a negative experience and found it rare to be recognized as their authentic selves while being tolerated.Progress beyond tolerance was considered necessary for trans liberation.
Transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation (taVNS) has been shown to influence cognitive and emotional function and enhance interoceptive awareness. This study investigates if taVNS effects extend to the experience of body ownership, as measured via susceptibility to the rubber hand illusion (RHI) in a virtual reality setting. The experiment involved 27 participants who underwent real and sham stimulation in two separate sessions while experiencing synchronous or asynchronous visuo-cardiac and visuo-tactile feedback on a virtual arm in place of their own. Results indicated that active compared to sham taVNS decreased sensitivity to the illusion in both cardiac and tactile trials, suggesting that the stimulation might enhance body ownership, making individuals more attuned to their real bodily signals and less susceptible to bodily illusions. Additionally, physiological measures such as heart rate (HR), heart rate variability (HRV), and skin sympathetic nervous activity (SKNA) were assessed to explore the autonomic effects of taVNS. The findings contribute to the understanding of the vagus nerve's role in integrating visceral and somatosensory signals, with implications for clinical applications in conditions characterized by altered interoception and body ownership.
Tuberculosis (TB) is still a major global health challenge, killing over 1.5 million people each year, and hence, there is a need to identify and develop novel treatments for Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis). The prevalence of infections caused by nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) is also increasing and has overtaken TB cases in the United States and much of the developed world. Mycobacterium abscessus (M. abscessus) is one of the most frequently encountered NTM and is difficult to treat. We describe the use of drug-disease association using a semantic knowledge graph approach combined with machine learning models that has enabled the identification of several molecules for testing anti-mycobacterial activity. We established that niclosamide (M. tuberculosis IC90 2.95 μM; M. abscessus IC90 59.1 μM) and tribromsalan (M. tuberculosis IC90 76.92 μM; M. abscessus IC90 147.4 μM) inhibit M. tuberculosis and M. abscessus in vitro. To investigate the mode of action, we determined the transcriptional response of M. tuberculosis and M. abscessus to both compounds in axenic log phase, demonstrating a broad effect on gene expression that differed from known M. tuberculosis inhibitors. Both compounds elicited transcriptional responses indicative of respiratory pathway stress and the dysregulation of fatty acid metabolism.
Tuberculosis (TB) is the leading cause of global morbidity and mortality resulting from infectious disease, with over 10.6 million new cases and 1.4 million deaths in 2021. This global emergency is exacerbated by the emergence of multidrug-resistant MDR-TB and extensively drug-resistant XDR-TB; therefore, new drugs and new drug targets are urgently required. From a whole cell phenotypic screen, a series of azetidines derivatives termed BGAz, which elicit potent bactericidal activity with MIC99 values <10 μM against drug-sensitive Mycobacterium tuberculosis and MDR-TB, were identified. These compounds demonstrate no detectable drug resistance. The mode of action and target deconvolution studies suggest that these compounds inhibit mycobacterial growth by interfering with cell envelope biogenesis, specifically late-stage mycolic acid biosynthesis. Transcriptomic analysis demonstrates that the BGAz compounds tested display a mode of action distinct from the existing mycobacterial cell wall inhibitors. In addition, the compounds tested exhibit toxicological and PK/PD profiles that pave the way for their development as antitubercular chemotherapies.
Tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) is an important inflammatory mediator in the body and and thus, is considered an important biomarker in a host of inflammatory disorders such as ulcerative colitis. Many biosensing strategies are expensive and use complex fabrication approaches. Therefore, this study aimed to develop a simple yet robust TNFα sensor, which could conduct measurement within biological environments. 3D printing was utilised to fabricate an electrode with skyscraper structures to provide increased surface area for the sensor. The sensor was made by covalent immobilization of anti-TNFα onto carboxylic acid bearing conducting polymer thiophene-2-carboxylic (Th2CA) after electrodeposition of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) onto the SS electrode. The development of the biosensor was characterised using field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). The linear range for TNFα was from 160 to 1820 pg/ml with a limit of detection of 44.5 pg/ml on the skyscraper (SS) immunosensor. The sensor was selective for the detection of TNFα when compared to other commonly found extracellular biological molecules. The sensor was able to monitor levels of TNFα from faecal pellets, where an increase in TNFα was observed with increasing age. These findings highlight that 3D printing could be used to make a simple yet robust immunosensor for the detection of a host of key biomolecules providing the potential for vital diagnostic tools.
Unlike surgical instruments and endoscopic equipment, Photodynamic Therapy (PDT) devices are not readily available or accessible to the clinicians who may like to add this form of treatment modality for selected patients and on an ad hock basis. There is in fact a vacuum in finding the "tools" of PDT for those clinicians who are not part of a "Centre" with a built-in knowledge base and contacts for manufacturers. In this compendium the Yorkshire Laser Centre /YLC in the UK, (the Project of the Moghissi Laser Trust – (Charity number 326689) requested three experienced clinicians (RA, ZH, KM) to produce essential information on the use of and equipment for PDT in the clinic. The YLC also sponsored a researcher (ID) to search and compile a detailed but non-exhaustive list of Photosensitizing agents, pharmaceutical companies, light sources and laser manufacturers with appropriate delivery devices for PDT. Thus, this Mini –Compendium is the end result of what is hoped to be a useful adjunct for practitioners, scientists and students of PDT.
Upper limb impairment is common after stroke, with a significant impact on the stroke survivor’s function, social participation and quality of life. Clinical guidelines are needed to inform clinical practise, tailor interventions to improve outcomes and address unresolved research questions. This review contributes to the evidence guiding clinical practise for upper limb motor recovery after stroke by summarising the recommendations from the UK rehabilitation guidelines (National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) and the Intercollegiate Stroke Working Party (ISWP)) and the European Stroke Organisation (ESO) guidelines, all published in 2023. All three guidelines target researchers, clinical practitioners, stroke survivors and their social networks. An important feature in all three guidelines was therapeutic intensity, with all guidelines recommending increased therapeutic intensity. Unlike the ESO, the NICE and ISWP additionally include specific research recommendations. While the NICE guidelines seem more holistic and target a wider audience, the three guidelines are complimentary. We recommend that a future consensus statement should be developed in partnership between all three organisations, agreeing on scope and using the same terminology, on recommendations to improve stroke rehabilitation in the UK and Europe.
Using messages posted on Twitter, this study develops a new approach to estimating collective emotions (CEs) within countries. It applies time series methodology to develop and demonstrate a novel application of CEs to identify emotional events that are significant at the societal level. The study analyzes over 200 million words from over 10 million Twitter messages posted in 16 countries during the first 120 days of the COVID-19 pandemic. Daily levels of collective anxiety and positive emotions were estimated using Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count's (LIWC) psychologically validated lexicon. The time series estimates of the two collective emotions were analyzed for structural breaks, which mark a significant change in a series due to an external shock. External shocks to collective emotions come from events that are of shared emotional relevance, and this study develops a new approach to identifying them. In the COVID-19 Twitter posts used in the study, analysis of structural breaks showed that in all 16 countries, a reduction in collective anxiety and an increase in positive emotions followed the WHO's declaration of COVID-19 as a global pandemic. Announcements of economic support packages and social restrictions also had similar impacts in some countries. This indicates that the reduction of uncertainty around the evolving COVID-19 situation had a positive emotional impact on people in all the countries in the study. The study contributes to the field of CEs and applied research in collective psychological phenomena.
Variations in the surface patterns of 3D printed electrochemical sensor can alter the analytical performance of the sensor for the detection of analytes.
Virtual Reality (VR) has materialized as a technology enabling users to experience computer-generated 3D environments.1 Medical education programs have recently incorporated VR into their curriculum as a supportive means of experiential learning modalities like laboratory exercises and simulation training.2 Applying Kolb’s Experiential Learning Theory,3 the use of VR in medical education allows students to acquire knowledge and develop “soft skills” like collaboration, communication, and teamwork through interactive processes.2,4,5 Traditionally, medical training has occurred in siloed specialties instead of integrated practices that require coordination across disciplines to provide excellent patient care.6 While the efficacy and realism of VR have room for improvement, incorporating VR into experiential exercises can enhance non-technical skills such as interpersonal interactions, minimize medical error, democratize opportunities, and galvanizing diverse people and practitioners.6–9 This practical review briefly explains VR’s utility, its function as an experiential learning tool, and application in clinical exercises.
We aimed to compare the association of three novel inflammatory indicators with metabolic syndrome (MetS) among Mashhad stroke and heart atherosclerotic disorder (MASHAD) cohort participants.
We conducted a cross-sectional survey to examine how undergraduate psychiatry is taught and assessed across medical schools in the UK that have at least one cohort of graduated students.
We report the second case of verruciform xanthoma of the penis occurring in a male with genital lichen sclerosus. We suggest that the diagnosis of VEGAS xanthoma should prompt careful examination of the genitalia for evidence of underlying lichen sclerosus, the signs of which may be subtle. Dear Editor, A 39 year old male presented with a 4 weeks history of an asymptomatic lesion on the glans penis. A superficial shave biopsy performed 2 weeks earlier had shown a hypertrophic epithelium with prominent parakeratosis suggestive of condyloma acuminatum. His medical history was significant for asthma, previous episodes of cholecystitis and pilonidal sinus. There was no past history of skin disease or sexually-transmitted infection and he denied any genitourinary symptoms. His regular medications included montelukast sodium and inhaled budesonide/formoterol (DuoResp Spiromax). Examination revealed a 1 cm white-yellow warty plaque on the glans penis (Figure 1). Chronic changes of lichen sclerosus were also noted. These included etiolation of the glans penis, loss of architectural definition posteriorly with complete loss of the frenulum, and constrictive lichenoid posthitis; although he was able to fully retract the foreskin. The patient reported being aware of some of these changes since childhood, however he was unaware that they were abnormal. There were no palpable lymph nodes. Clinical appearance of verruciform xanthoma. A yellowish cerebriform plaque on the glans penis. Clobetasol ointment was commenced once daily, however after 4 weeks there was no significant improvement in the lesion and a punch biopsy was performed. This revealed a slightly acanthotic epidermis with superficial erosions and associated neutrophils (Figure 2a). Within the papillary dermis, large foamy histiocytes were seen with associated lymphoplasmacytic inflammation (Figure 2a,b). There was no dysplasia or malignancy, and no fungal organisms were identified. (a and b) Histological appearance of verruciform xanthoma. Large foamy histiocytes are seen within the papillary dermis. The clinical and histological features together confirmed the diagnosis of verruciform xanthoma. Verruciform xanthoma is a benign warty lesion most commonly arising in the oral cavity. Lesions are usually asymptomatic and have variable morphology ranging from flat to papillary and verrucous. Extraoral lesions are uncommon but have been described affecting both male and female genitalia where they are referred to as verruciform genital-associated (VEGAS) xanthomas. Other extraoral sites include the face, limbs, and acral skin. Lesions can be multiple. Verruciform xanthoma of the penis is rare. The first case was reported by Kraemer et al in 19811 and to date a total of 41 cases have been reported in the literature. The age of onset ranges from 8 to 85 years, and the average duration of symptoms prior to diagnosis is 3.7 years2 Lesions are typically solitary and enlarge slowly. The most common location is the glans followed by the prepuce, coronal sulcus and shaft of the penis.2 Lesions vary from sessile to pedunculated, and are often pink or skin-coloured to yellow. Some lesions show porokeratosis-like features clinically and histologically. Verruciform xanthoma may resemble condyloma acuminatum, however the latter frequently presents with multiple lesions whilst verruciform xanthoma is usually solitary. Squamous cell carcinoma and verrucous carcinoma must be excluded. Other differential diagnoses to consider include bowenoid papulosis, verruca vulgaris, granular cell tumour, giant molluscum contagiousm, condyloma latum, and seborrhoeic keratosis. A biopsy is essential to confirm the diagnosis. The histological features of verruciform xanthoma include acanthosis with parakeratosis, uniformly elongated rete ridges, neutrophilic dermal infiltrate, and the presence of foamy histiocytes within the dermal papillae. Foam cells stain positive for Periodic Acid Schiff and CD68. Treatment of verruciform xanthoma may not be required beyond reassurance. Surgical excision is curative. Other treatment modalities which have been successful include carbon dioxide laser, superficial electrocoagulation, cryotherapy, imiquimod and radiotherapy.3 The aetiology of verruciform xanthoma is poorly understood. An association with human papilloma virus (HPV) infection has been suggested, however the absence of histological features of HPV infection and the failure to detect HPV DNA in numerous cases of verruciform xanthoma is not in favour of this. One hypothesis is that verruciform xanthoma represents a reaction to epithelial damage arising from local trauma or inflammation. This is supported by reports of verruciform xanthoma occurring in the setting of congenital hemidysplasia with ichthyosiform erythroderma and limb defects syndrome, inflammatory linear verrucous epidermal nevus, graft versus host disease, discoid lupus erythematosus, pemphigus vulgaris, and recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa. The proposed mechanism involves entrapment and degradation of keratinocytes in the papillary dermis with release of lipids which are engulfed by macrophages. A similar inflammatory reaction, involving degeneration of keratinocytes and the dermoepidermal junction, occurs in lichen planus and lichen sclerosus. VEGAS xanthomas have been reported previously in association with genital lichen planus and lichen sclerosus in females,4 and one case has been reported in a male patient with genital lichen sclerosus.5 To our knowledge, this is the second report of verruciform xanthoma of the penis occurring in a male with genital lichen sclerosus. We theorize that this could have occurred secondary to the effects of chronic local inflammation from untreated lichen sclerosus. Altered lymphatic drainage and lymphostasis has been proposed as a contributing factor in the pathogenesis of verruciform xanthoma, in patients with lichen sclerosus.6 We suggest that the diagnosis of VEGAS xanthoma should prompt careful examination of the genitalia for evidence of an underlying inflammatory dermatosis such as lichen sclerosus, the signs of which may be subtle. Not applicable. None to declare. David J. Chandler: Conceptualization (lead); investigation (lead); writing – original draft (lead); writing – review & editing (supporting). Dong Eun Lee: Investigation (supporting); writing – original draft (supporting). Mara Quante: Formal analysis (lead); writing – review & editing (supporting). Lindsay Atkinson: Investigation (supporting); supervision (lead); writing – review & editing (lead). This article received no specific grant from any funding agency in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors. Not applicable. The data underlying this article will be shared on reasonable request to the corresponding author.
Welcome to a new issue of Nursing in Critical Care—the second one for this year. We open this issue with a thought-provoking guest editorial by our outgoing co-editor Lyvonne Tume co-written by Leanne Aitken.1 There is a substantial body of literature on the importance of, and challenges to, implementing beneficial evidence-based practices. Conversely, using routine gastric residual volume measurement as an exemplar, this guest editorial advocates for the equally important process of de-implementing critical care practices for which there is no evidence of benefit or, worse, which are potentially harmful. This guest editorial sets the scene for the rest of the issue, with several of its papers focussing on safety considerations and/or nutrition. The systematic reviews by Yang et al.2 and Liao et al.3 focus on the comparative effectiveness of different chlorhexidine-based oral care solutions in the prevention of ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) and the efficacy and safety of prone position ventilation in the improvement of pulmonary ventilation. Also related to airway and ventilation safety, another two papers focus on the prevention of unintended extubating in children4 and adults,5 through a standardized care bundle and the development of a knowledge-attitudes-practices (KAP) questionnaire respectively. Another aspect of patient safety involves the prevention of medication errors. In this issue, this is addressed through a scoping review mapping existing knowledge on the labelling of intravenous drug delivery devices6 and a secondary analysis of an international survey on intensive care unit (ICU) nurses' knowledge, attitudes and reported practices related to the prevention of medication error.7 On the other hand, a Brazilian team8 conducted a randomised controlled trial (RCT) to compare the safety and effectiveness of different silicon and acrylate tapes for securing urinary catheters. The primary outcome assessed in this RCT was medical adhesive-related skin injuries (MARSI)—an important but relatively under-reported adverse effect of ICU admission. Four papers in this issue investigate nutrition in critically ill adults or children. Beissel et al.9 report on a quality improvement exercise in France to investigate whether an infant cue-based nurse educational feeding bundle is associated with an accelerated achievement of independent oral feeding among critically ill neonates. Shunxia et al.10 investigated the clinical impact of a multidisciplinary nutrition management model through an RCT in China. Finally, Occhiali and colleagues11 evaluated the perceptions of nurses working in a French surgical ICU of their involvement in indirect calorimetry measurement. This issue of Nursing in Critical Care maintains the trend of featuring a selection of papers providing insight into the lessons learnt from the COVID-19 pandemic from a managerial, clinical or psychosocial perspective. Batassini and Beghetto12 used the Nursing Activity Score (NAS) to compare the workload of critical care nurses taking care of patients with and without COVID-19 in Brazil. Bilgili and Akpinar13 conduced an RCT in Turkey to determine the effect of listening to music on the compliance of COVID-19 patients with, and their anxiety levels during, continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy. Alkorashy et al.14 investigated the prevalence, nature and degree of conflict and preferred management styles among ICU nurses in Saudi Arabia. Scott et al.15 conducted a phenomenological study to explore the lived experience of non-ICU nurses who were redeployed to critical care units in the United Kingdom during the pandemic, whereas Lehmkuhl et al.16 used dyadic interviews to delve into the intertwined ICU experiences of COVID-19 patients and their relatives in Denmark. Also related to the well-being of critical care nurses and their patients, this issue includes a service evaluation of an online compassion-focussed intervention,17 a qualitative study about the barriers and facilitators to the integration of virtual reality exposure therapy in the complex environment of the ICU18 and the effect of providing a booklet, in addition to routine education by nurses, on the pain and anxiety levels of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.19 To conclude this issue, we present the study protocol20 for an upcoming Australian cohort study investigating long-term outcomes after paediatric sepsis (LOTUS). Study protocols constitute a relatively small portion of papers published in Nursing in Critical Care. Researchers who may be interested in publishing protocols of their upcoming studies in the journal are encouraged to follow our author guidelines for this manuscript category. With safety as its overarching theme, this second issue of Nursing in Critical Care for 2024 features a b road selection of quantitative and qualitative studies, review papers, quality improvement and service evaluation reports and study protocols from various countries. They cover a range of clinically important critical care topics, ranging from nutrition and oral care to the prevention of VAP and medication error; and from the experiences and well-being of nurses, patients and their relatives during the COVID-19 pandemic to conflict prevention and workload management during that pandemic. We trust that you will find these papers insightful, thought provoking and useful to your practice as nurse clinicians, researchers, managers or educators. I am happy to introduce myself as the new Co-Editor-in-Chief of Nursing in Critical Care. My career has transitioned from a nurse working in intensive care units in the United Kingdom to a nursing lecturer running a master's in research course. I decided to become involved in the peer review and editorial process as this aligned with my ethos. I have been reviewing for the journal for the past 10 years and more recently became a member of the editorial advisory board. My work with the journal has always been aimed at making the peer review process as valid, fair and transparent as possible. I see my editorial role as collaborating closely with authors and reviewers to facilitate a productive process. I am particularly excited to work closely with Dr Josef Trapani as Co-Editor-in-Chief and our wonderful team of associate editors, advisory board members and reviewers. Together, we hope to start a progressive new chapter in the Journal's long and successful history. My vision is to pursue and promote a transparent and productive publication process that is centred on our authors and focussed on supporting them in order to publish articles of the highest standards. As a British Association of Critical Care Nurses (BACCN) society journal, I hope to work closely and constructively with our community of authors, reviewers and fellow members and the national board of the BACCN. I am particularly interested in bringing early career researchers (ECRs) into the publishing process as authors, reviewers or members of a future ECR editorial board that will complement our present editorial team. If you are interested in submitting an article to Nursing in Critical Care, but you are not quite sure whether it is the right fit, please contact us to discuss and we will be happy to provide feedback. We would both like to thank Professor Lyvonne Tume, who stepped down from co-editor last month, for her incredible dedication and hard work to pass on a progressive and healthy publication. We are most grateful that she will be staying on as associate editor. It was an incredible privilege and honour for me (Josef) to work with Lyvonne as co-editor over the past 4 years and I cherish the discussions, collegiality, mutual learning and team-spirit that characterised our journey as co-editors. We are both counting on your support to assure that the standards and quality of Nursing in Critical Care remain outstanding. We wish you all the best for a new chapter in the journal's history and we look forward to working with you all. The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.
Welcome to issue 29-5 of Nursing in Critical Care (NICC). As we start to draw 2024 to a close, we can reflect on what an amazing year it has been with an issue packed with brilliant papers. Nicki Credland's time as British Association of Critical Care Nurses (BACCN) Chair came to an end in September 2023 after six incredible years. Holding this position and helping to support and advocate for critical care nursing through a global pandemic was one of the proudest achievements of her career. She hopes to have contributed to the development of our profession and the understanding of our key role as a crucial stakeholder in decision-making. In this edition, we have a guest editorial1 from the new Chair of BACCN, Ian Naldrett, and the Conference Director, Karin Gerber. Ian highlights the challenges that our speciality continues to face while exploring some of the opportunities for the future. BACCN Conference 2024 is going to be held in Aberdeen this year, and we are looking forward to a fabulous Scottish welcome. With a focus on diversity and healthy workplaces, Ian is continuing to focus on ensuring that nursing has a seat and a voice at tables of influence. Under Karin's leadership, it promises to be an excellent conference and we look forward to meeting many delegates at our NICC stand. In addition to the guest editorial, this issue features 37 articles: 32 research articles—19 of which employed a quantitative methodology—one short research paper, one review article, one validation study, a poem and a case study. We present to you an unusual critical commentary that shares with you, from the perspective of a patient, the experience of delirium through the medium of a poem.2 Wu et al.3 present a further critical commentary that reopens the discussion on early mobilization and conclude that, through more research, early mobilization could be useful to most patients and in most scenarios. Two studies explored renal disease: a case study from China4 described the case of a patient with superior vena cava syndrome and the use of central vein catheters inserted via the superficial femoral artery, and Mateos-Dávila et al.5 conducted a quasi-experimental study to compare dilute versus concentrated regional citrate anticoagulation. There are several papers detailing educational needs and educational programmes. The majority followed a quantitative methodology. Knowledge of pulse oximetry and predictors on knowledge were investigated.6 Three studies researched education on knowledge outcomes. The reliability of oesophageal pressure measurement was assessed post education7; post-operative recovery of cardiac patients was assessed after a preoperative education program,8 and a literature review of the impact of preceptorship on newly qualified nurses was undertaken.9 The educational needs of new nurses working in intensive care units (ICUs) was also explored.10 The experiences of expert nurses such as anaesthetist nurses and specialist ICU nurses, besides new ICU nurses, and their experiences of intrahospital transport of critically ill patients11 and a dimensional analysis12 of experienced ICU nurses' clinical decision-making for bleeding after cardiac surgery can also be found within this issue. Five papers in this issue address the use of physical restraints in adult, paediatric and neonatal critical care units. The first two of these focus on the complications of physical restraint.13, 14 A prospective observational study by Yıldız and Özkaraman13 assessed the development of vascular complications associated with physical restraints in eight ICUs in the inner regions of Turkey, whereas Cohen et al.14 investigated the association of physical restraint with agitation, morbidity and mortality in a retrospective study in Israel. Three other papers explored the development15 and impact16, 17 of instruments related to restraint use. Specifically, Alcaraz et al.15 adapted and validated the Physical Restraint-Theory of Planned Behaviour Questionnaire to the paediatric critical care context, whereas Dauvergne et al.16 and Kang et al.17 used a pre-post intervention design to assess the impact of decision support tools on actual restraint use in adult and neonatal ICUs in France and South Korea, respectively. The contrasting results in the latter two studies lead one to reflect on the influence of various factors, such as type of ICU and especially sociocultural context on this obliquitous, and often controversial, aspect of critical care. This issue includes several studies with a paediatric or neonatal critical care focus, with particular attention being given to family-centred care (FCC) and the experiences of the families and care providers of critically ill children. A descriptive qualitative study18 explored the barriers to FCC in Ghanian neonatal ICUs, and a quantitative study19 in the United states investigated the associations between perceived FCC and parental post-traumatic stress 4 months after the infant's discharge. Another study20 from the United States reports on the development of a family care journal to assess the experience of, and resources needed by, the families of children receiving care in a paediatric ICU. Harris et al.21 explored the experiences of parents and health care professionals involved in a feasibility trial exploring the effectiveness of neurally adjusted ventilatory assist in infants with acute viral bronchiolitis, while Maleki et al.22 investigated the experiences of mothers with regard to privacy in neonatal ICUs in Iran. Delirium assessment and management, early mobilization and clinical nutrition also feature prominently in this issue. A web-based survey23 assessed the self-reported implementation of the ABCDEF care bundle by ICU nurses in Turkey and reported that almost half of them did not routinely monitor patients for delirium. Surveys from South Korea24 and Ireland25 demonstrated the gap between nurses' delirium-related knowledge and practice. A national survey in the United Kingdom showed that although the majority of paediatric ICUs have designated professionals for patients with long-term and additional needs, only a minority offer specifically tailored management plans to those populations.26 A Chinese survey27 documented the divergence between ICU nurses' practices and the recommendations outlined in early mobilization guidelines, and a historical control study28 from the same country evaluated the impact of early mobilization on traumatic brain injury-related pneumonia in neurosurgical ICUs. Ng and Christensen29 documented the registered nurses' poor knowledge of ECG rhythm identification and interpretation. A four-centre survey in England and Wales30 found that despite increasing evidence suggesting that regular gastric residual volume measurement is unnecessary, nurses' beliefs around the value of this practice persist, and it continues to be embedded into unit protocols around feeding. Bişkin Çetin and Cebeci31 demonstrated the benefits of using a computer-based triage decision support system in the emergency department to help triage nurses make their own decisions using their clinical knowledge and experience without restriction on their professional autonomy. A randomized controlled trial compared three debriefing methods on satisfaction and debriefing experience after in situ simulation among ICU nurses.32 Although the study found no statistically significant differences between the examined methods, the results showed nurses' good experience and high satisfaction with the debriefing sessions. A Polish survey33 demonstrated the pivotal role of managerial support in enhancing patient safety and the care provided by the nursing staff. A Chinese qualitative study highlighted the role of adequate preparation, accurate assessment, good communication and teamwork in ensuring patient safety during the interhospital transfer of patients with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support.34 Another Chinese qualitative study showed how understanding critical care nurses' competencies in mobile medical teams can help managers plan and provide relevant training and education before deployment, which can improve nurses' performance.35 A qualitative investigation of the experiences of ethical conflict among critical care professionals found that despite the negative experiences (feeling of inability to navigate uncertainty, conflicted by family issues, etc.), critical care professionals felt that these struggles could lead to personal growth.36 Piredda et al.37 highlighted the need for ICU nurses to have relational skills to provide quality care to nursing care-dependent ICU patients. Červený et al.38 also highlighted the need to create cultural awareness among ICU nurses to provide culturally sensitive care in a critical care setting. We hope that you have enjoyed this issue and that the included papers have developed your knowledge and inspired you to continue delivering expert, evidence-based critical care to your patients or to get involved in some research yourself. We also hope to see you at the BACCN conference. Please do come and say hi to the editorial team on the NICC stand. Data sharing is not applicable to this article as no new data were created or analyzed in this study.
Welcome to the third issue of Nursing in Critical Care for this year. In this issue, we cast a spotlight on cardiac intensive care nursing, early mobilization and other clinically relevant topics, which should be of interest to critical care nurses in various settings. Again, the number of submissions to the journal remained high; therefore, the number of papers published is also high and we included 21 papers in this issue. Many of the papers are primarily quantitative in nature, including surveys, randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and scale validation, so we hope our guest editorial from the first issue of this year1 will help make sense of the statistical results. Nonetheless, the issue also includes a selection of qualitative studies focussing on the experiences of patients, their family and their care providers. We open this issue with commentary papers on two topical issues. In their guest editorial, McEvoy and Tume2 discuss the importance and implications of undertaking peer reviews for critical care nursing journals, whereas the critical commentary by Sumner and Macwan3 examines the role of registered nursing associates in critical care. We hope that these papers provide food for thought, and that the first one encourages you to consider becoming a peer reviewer for this and other critical care journals. This issue includes six research papers and one review paper that collectively provide a holistic exploration of various facets of cardiac intensive care nursing. Varpaei et al.'s scoping review4 evaluates factors associated with anaesthesia-related post-operative cognitive dysfunction among young and middle-aged adults who underwent cardiothoracic surgery. Team and colleagues5 conducted a two-round modified eDelphi survey to establish expert consensus on nurses' roles and responsibilities in the provision of cardiac advanced life support for post-operative cardiac surgical patients. Important psychosocial aspects of care are considered in Yang et al's longitudinal study6 on factors associated with sleep quality in patients undergoing cardiac surgery, and in Yildirim et al.'s study7 investigating correlations between death anxiety, loneliness and hope levels in cardiac intensive care unit (ICU) patients. The next paper8 describes the clinical characteristics of adults admitted to, and discharged from, an Advanced Heart Failure Intensive Care Unit (AFICU) in the Midwestern United States. The final two papers in this series focus on pain following cardiac surgery, from the perspective of patients, families and nurses9 and through an application of Roy's Adaptation Model.10 Pain management is also the subject of the first neonatal paper in this issue, which reports on a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with the participation of 105 newborn–parent dyads investigating the effect of parents' voice on reducing heel puncture pain.11 Another neonatal paper presents an audit aimed at determining the potential eligibility for neonatal tissue and/or organ donation referral in infants who died in an ICU in the United Kingdom in the previous 10 years.12 The next two papers focus on the experiences of critical care nurses. Safhafi et al.'s descriptive phenomenological study13 explored the experience of working as a nurse in an adult ICU in Sydney, Australia, during the first and the fourth year of practice, whereas Dural14 examined the spiritual care experiences of ICU nurses in Eastern Turkey. This issue also includes papers about noise levels and spinal fractures in ICUs. The observational simulation study by Imbriaco and colleagues in Italy15 investigated the effects of noises generated by medical devices, alarms and nursing interventions on simulated patients. Li et al.'s retrospective study16 sought to determine the impact of venous thromboembolism prophylaxis in patients with spinal fractures in ICUs. Another timely topic explored in this issue is early mobilization of critically ill patients. Sui et al.17 investigated the knowledge and attitudes of ICU nurses about early mobilization of mechanically ventilated patients and their association with reported practices in this important area of practice. Othman et al.18 conducted a RCT to evaluate the impact of neuromuscular electrical stimulation and early physical activity on ICU-acquired weakness in patients receiving mechanical ventilation. Cussen et al.'s scoping review19 on early mobility interventions for critically ill patients is particularly significant because it explores the extent to which family engagement is reported in research papers about such interventions. Family engagement is also the focus of the national survey of Danish ICUs conducted by Oxenbøll Collet and colleagues.20 This issue concludes with a protocol of an upcoming qualitative study21 exploring the experiences of patients, family members and health care professionals in relation to musculoskeletal impairments after critical illness which aims to guide future interventions in this important area of rehabilitation. With cardiac critical care as the overarching theme, this third issue of Nursing in Critical Care for 2024 features a broad selection of papers covering numerous methodologies from various countries. We trust that you will find these papers insightful, thought provoking and relevant to your practice. Data sharing is not applicable to this article as no new data were created or analyzed in this study.
With the development of new batteries, the historical data available for training for remaining useful life (RUL) prediction of li-ion batteries will be greatly reduced, and the capacity regeneration phenomenon (CRP) of batteries will also bring challenges to the prediction. This paper proposes a hybrid model that combines decomposition algorithms incorporating the broad learning system with dropout (BLSD) to predict the RUL of batteries. Firstly, the improved complete ensemble empirical mode decomposition with adaptive noise (ICEEMDAN) method is employed to decompose the raw data into several intrinsic mode function (IMF) which is divided into the global components (GC) and local components (LC) by introducing the Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC). Secondly, considering that traditional BLS methods might exacerbate overfitting and lack the capacity to express uncertainty, Dropout techniques are incorporated into BLS to address these issues. Thirdly, multiple distinct BLSD models are employed to individually train GC and LC, and the summation of multiple predicted values yields the final capacity curve. Finally, the maximum observed root mean square error (RMSE) is 0.006679 when the battery history data is sufficient, and the maximum RMSE is 0.005737 when the battery history data is insufficient, which verifies the validity of the model.
With the proliferation of malware on IoT devices, research on IoT malicious code has also become more mature. Most studies use learning models to detect or classify malware. Therefore, ensuring high-quality labels for malware samples is crucial to maintaining research accuracy. Researchers typically submit malware samples to Anti-Virus (AV) engines to obtain labels, but different engines have varying rules for detecting maliciousness and variants. This study aims to improve future IoT malware research accuracy by investigating label quality. We address three label-related issues, including Anti-Virus detection technology, naming rules, and label expiration. Additionally, we examine multiple sources of malware labels, including 63 studies on IoT, Windows, and Android malware, as well as commonly used tools such as AVClass and Anti-Virus engines. To evaluate and recommend label sources, we construct classification models using an IoT malware dataset obtained from VirusShare, which is labeled with common tools and Anti-Virus engines and classified based on ELF features. For family classification, we investigate four methods and tools, and for variant hierarchy classification, we compare label overlaps with sample clustering from 12 Anti-Virus engines. Based on our findings, we recommend AVClass for obtaining labels for IoT family classification. For small-scale malware families at the variant level, we recommend using the labels from Ad-Aware, BitDefender, and Emsisoft engines. For large-scale malware families, we advise employing labels from Jiangmin, NANO-Antivirus, and Avira engines, serving as a valuable guide for future IoT malware research.
Yellow fever (YF) remains a significant public health concern in Nigeria, with sporadic outbreaks causing considerable morbidity and mortality. This zoonotic viral disease is transmitted primarily by Aedes mosquitoes, posing a constant threat to human populations. Although vaccination efforts have been ongoing for years, outbreaks still occur, underscoring the need for a comprehensive approach to combat YF. In Nigeria, adopting a One Health approach is imperative for effective yellow fever control. This approach recognizes the intricate interplay between human health, animal health, and the environment. Key strategies include the implementation of travel advisories, widespread vaccination campaigns, and early detection and reporting of cases. Surveillance efforts extend to both human and non-human primate populations to monitor the circulation of the virus accurately. Community engagement plays a vital role in this approach, with local communities actively participating in efforts to eliminate mosquito breeding sites. Integrated mosquito management techniques, such as the use of insecticides and repellents, are promoted alongside community-led interventions to reduce breeding grounds, such as removing stagnant water. By embracing the principles of One Health and implementing coordinated efforts across regions within Nigeria, we can strive towards the eradication of yellow fever. This holistic approach holds the potential to mitigate the burden of disease and pave the way for a future free from the threat of yellow fever outbreaks in Nigeria.
Young people in Colombia present high rates of mental health problems, to which the country's history of armed internal conflict contributes in complex ways. Mental health services in Colombia are fragmented, inadequate, and difficult to access for many. Young people's help-seeking is often hindered by mental health stigma and/or poor experiences with services. This paper presents a thematic analysis of qualitative data from a mixed-methods study aimed at developing and testing a mental health intervention for Colombian youths. We draw upon theoretical lenses from scholarly work on stigma and Sen's 'capabilities approach' to inform our analysis of interviews and group discussions with staff and young people involved in the state-funded human capital building programme 'Jovenes en Acción' (JeA). By illustrating how study participants talked about stigma, vulnerability, mental health services organisation, and the challenges of discussing mental health topics in a learning environment, we illuminate aspects of mental health support and anti-stigma interventions that might need enhancing. In particular, we suggest that more emphasis on 'community competencies' as complementary to and interrelated with individual competencies would strengthen young people's individual and collective resources for mental wellbeing while being in line with the sociocritical principles of existing human capital-enhancing programmes.
Young women who are not in education, employment, or training (NEET) experience poorer health and social outcomes compared to non-NEET young women and to NEET young men, especially in deprived areas with intersecting inequalities. The evidence on effective public health approaches is scarce. Interventions that target hope, which NEET young women notably lack, offer a promising theory-driven and intuitive means to prevent mental health problems and improve social outcomes. Hope can be defined as a goal-focused mindset comprising self-agency (motivation and self-belief) and pathways (identifying routes to achieving goals). Hope is implicated in a variety of evidence-based psychosocial interventions for young people, but is not directly targeted by existing prevention programmes for NEET populations. The current study used a phased qualitative research design and participatory methods to model a hope-focused intervention for NEET young women. Phase 1 investigated population needs and intervention parameters through semi-structured interviews with 28 key informants living or working in disadvantaged coastal communities in South-East England. The sample comprised eight NEET young women, four family members, and 16 practitioners from relevant support organisations. Phase 2 refined intervention parameters and outcomes through co-design sessions with four NEET young women, followed by a theory of change workshop with 10 practitioners. The resulting intervention model is articulated as a mentor-supported, in-person psychosocial intervention that builds hope by enhancing positive sense of self and time spent in meaningful activities, before explicitly teaching the skills needed to identify, set, and pursue personally meaningful goals.
Youth substance abuse is widespread in India. Data is needed to inform the focus of prevention approaches. Our aim was to understand the perspectives of Indian young people about what protects them from substance (ab)use, and our study followed protocols approved by UK and Indian university research ethics committees. We recruited 15 Indian adolescents from Assam (seven males, eight females) aged 15 to 18 years at elevated risk because they had family/friends who were substance addicts. Participants took part in a photo-led interview in which they represented visually and narratively their experience of resisting substances (ab)use. Data were analyzed by a UK-India team using reflexive thematic analysis. Seven dominant protective factors were expressed by young people, including nurturing and communicative relationships with parents; up close and personal observations around addiction which left participants fearful of substances; protective mindsets and resolutions emerging from participants’ reflection on drug culture; staying away from “bad” company; being repulsed by substances; having healthy ways to cope at difficult times; and having something that mattered more than using substances. Findings show the resilience of Indian adolescents and suggest that prevention approaches in India should focus on augmenting individual, school and family mechanisms which appear dynamic and cumulative.
